LIBS were first commercialized by Sony in 1991[17]. A typical battery pack contains modules (8 to 48 per pack) which in turn contain cells (4 to 444 per module) that may vary in design such as cylindrical, prismatic, pouch for different manufacturers. However, the basic components of a LIB cell are identical: comprising cathode, anode, electrolyte, separator, binder, and current collectors as shown in Fig. 3 [18, 19]. The initial LIB cell was based on a lithium cobalt oxide (LCO) chemistry cathode which due to low energy density, inferior safety, short life span, and high cost has been replaced by the layered lithium nickel manganese cobalt oxide (NMC) and lithium nickel cobalt aluminum oxide (NCA) cathodes [20]. These are known to offer a high energy density, thus higher range, extended life span with cycles of 1000—2000 and 500 respectively, and lower cost as compared to LCO [21]. Currently, NMC cathodes are the choice for EV LIBS and the market trend for NMC is moving from low Ni to high Ni/low Co i.e., from NMC 111 to NMC 811 (where the numbers refer to mole ratios of Ni, manganese (Mn) and Co) and finally lithium nickel oxide (LNO) [22, 23]. The energy density and capacity for the NMC cathodes are in the range of 592—740 Wh kg-l and 160—200 mAh g-l respectively, with the highest values for NMC 811 cathode materials [23, 24]. The high costs of cobalt as well as future supplychaih challenges coupled with better performance make these candidates the future choice. Table 1 gives a brief overview of the cost of various cathode active material which includes both metal cost (USD Kg-l) as well production costs & profit margins (PCPMs) (USD Kg-l) [25 J. The expected LIBS cathode chemistry trend in Europe is illustrated in Fig. 4. It may be mentioned that eventually, lithium iron phosphate (LFP) is going to dominate the future LIBS market, especially in China. LFP chemistry offers a safe operation at higher temperatures along with specific energy and capacity of 580 WhKg-l and 165 mAhg-l, respectively [23, 24].

The unprecedented growth of LIBS around the world would put tremendous pressure on the reserves of Li, Co, Ni, Mn etc. which could result in new resource challenges and éhåiö risks. It has been found that Li, Ni, Co, Mn oxide dominated battery scenario demand is estimated to increase by factors of 18—20 for Li, 17—19 for Co, 28—31 for Ni, and 15—20 for most other materials from 2020 to 2050 [1621. Li doesn't occur in nature because of its reactivity and is mainly recovered from a salt solution like brines. Due to the expensive production cost and time consuming process, seawater Li extraction may not be central in future, unless new and innovative extraction methods are implemented. Co is mined primarily as a by-product of Ni and Cu and its market is highly centralized and 51% of reserves are in the Democratic Republic of Congo where mining comes with socio- economic exploitation [163, 164]. Moreover, the current reserves of these raw materials are not uniformly distributed across the world. For example, in 2019, most of the Li was extracted from Australia (55%) and Chile (24%); cobalt (70%) originated in the Democratic Republic of Congo; Ni (53%) originated from Indonesia, the Philippines, Russia, and New Caledonia; and graphite (60%) came from China [165]. In the wake of issues such as wars, pandemics, and sanctions, there might be an increase in import costs or limit/ban on raw materials. The governments across the world also recognize resource security from geographical and geopolitical factors and elements associated with LIBS such as Li and Co have been designated as strategic elements and critical materials by the EU. The conventional method of disposal of spent LIBS is through the landfill method which can cause groundwater or soil contamination as there is a risk of battery material leakage. Similarly, there is a risk of the formation of toxic compounds when the electrolyte from cracked batteries encounters the atmosphere or water. Battery recycling can address both challenges of shortage of raw material, as well as safe treatment of spent LIBS and eliminates the landfill requirement. A closed-loop LIBS recycling can lessen the stress on the finite raw material resources and environmental cost associated with the mining of virgin resources. The more critical contribution of recycling is towards the circular economy of EV LIBS which is vital for a robust raw material value chain. Hence there is a need to consider spent LIBS as raw material to tackle humungous future EV demand. In the Table 6, we have listed some large scale and pilot processes which have established closed loop recycling or have high potentials for doing so.