In the process of the electrification of the vehicle industry, an important issue is to adapt production to new technological solutions and to achieve a break-even point in the production costs of an electric vehicle in the short term compared to its traditional counterparts. By the end of 2020, 10 million electric cars were sold worldwide. In today’s globalized and crisis market realities, it is very difficult for state authorities to build a competitive advantage. Based on the concept of M.E. Porter, generating competitiveness does not take place at the macroeconomic, but at the mezzoeconomic level. The key purposes of this review paper are threefold: firstly, to identify the infrastructure for the production of electric cars (market size, resources) in some major Asian countries, including Indonesia; secondly, to identify the importance of FDI for Indonesia and the essence of their relations with China, and thirdly, to investigate whether Indonesia is able to build a competitive advantage in the form of a regional EV battery chain hub. The Indonesian government should ensure a more sizeable investment in lithium-ion battery production in order to complete a whole downstream supply chain, which includes the synthesis of the remaining high-quality battery materials.

Indonesia has the largest car market and is the second-largest car manufacturer among the ASEAN countries; the country exploits its own resources of raw materials for this purpose. In August 2019, the Indonesian President signed a decree to support the electric vehicle industry [14]. The strategy included plans to start the production of EVs in 2022, aiming for EVs to reach a 20 percent share of total car production by 2025 [15]. The competitive advantage of Indonesia in the development of the regional EV battery chain is due to the richness of key mineral resources, such as nickel ore and crude oil. In January 2020, the government introduced a ban on exports of unprocessed nickel ore. The aim was to improve the value-added opportunities for nickel products and to support the local industry [16]. The richness of mineral deposits is not the only reason for the country’s intention to build its growing position in the EV supply chain; its geographical position is also significant, with direct sea shipping routes to Japan and China. These two countries are leaders in the development of new technologies, including the production of power cells for different products. Large Chinese companies are investing in the Indonesian mineral industry to obtain the supplies needed for battery production. This gives Indonesia an opportunity to build a significant competitive advantage in this sector.

The immense deposits of nickel are not only the reason for the country’s growing dominance in the EV supply chain. Indonesia is located on the edge of the Pacific, which gives the country direct nautical transport routes to Japan and China; both of these countries are major players in the battery supply chain. On top of that, China has become a leader in the production of cathodes and anodes. Japan and China require minerals for their production which Indonesia can easily deliver. Therefore, major Chinese companies are investing in the Indonesian mineral industry. The ore export ban, introduced by the government in January 2020, caused an increase in Class 2 nickel production (nickel pig iron (NPI) and ferronickel (FeNi)). It represented a large nickel feedstock for stainless steel industries in Indonesia and China. The investments via brownfield expansions and greenfield projects created additional NPI capacity. The estimated production of NPI grew by 53% YOY in 2020 [66]. The Indonesian sector has lower production costs than smaller NPI producers in China. For the companies operating in Indonesia there is a double opportunity in the EV market; they have the chance to become involved in the creation of an integrated EV domestic market, and to begin exporting to China. However, the key to success is to transform Class 2 laterite deposits into battery-grade nickel.

Indonesia is the world’s largest producer of nickel ore, which, after a special processed treatment, is a key ingredient in the ion-lithium battery. The most pressing issue is the ability to manufacture Class 1 nickel, which is dedicated to ion-lithium battery production (RQ3). On top of that, special innovated technology must be implemented to avoid environmental concerns. The carbon footprint of the technology required to complete the processing route could potentially be a large problem for an exploration into green EVs. Today, electric car production generates more emissions than the production of internal combustion engines. In this context, the important issue is shifting towards green raw materials by using low-carbon manufacturing technology. These two factors will be a key part of the future of decarbonizing supply chain and should be especially considered by the Indonesian authorities.

Indonesia seems to have a solid basis within the current automotive industry, which could create the conditions to develop a complete EV supply chain (RQ2). However, the two aforementioned factors, are just two assets. Indonesia is one of the key automotive markets in the region of Southeast Asia, but it is still in the early stage of developing its EV sector. The Indonesian government should ensure a more sizeable investment into lithium-ion battery production in order to develop a complete downstream supply chain, including the synthesis of the remaining high-quality battery materials. The Indonesian Battery Corporation, which is focused on this objective, may not be enough to turn Indonesia into a global player, rather than merely a regional one within the ASEAN region and China. Indonesia cannot become a global player without inviting the big players from the EV battery industry (e.g., China, Japan or South Korea) into their domestic investments. This should be carried out in the global context of the international supply chain. Moreover, the development of the EV industry can increase the employment rate in the industry, with the employment level in the internal combustion powertrain industry remaining unaffected.

In the context of the EV market, FDI plays a very important role (RQ1). Thanks to FDI, it is possible to inflow resources and technologies that are not available in the country. This is very important for Indonesia, which has limited resources. Thanks to FDI, Indonesia can raise the necessary funds to become a key hub for EV batteries. It is important that FDI (mainly from China) is based on partnership. In this case, the Indonesian government must play a large role, which should ensure a proper level of mutual relations.
By building its competitive advantage in the EV battery market, Indonesia cannot allow China to dominate in both relations (RQ2). In the long run, this may reduce the role of Indonesia to that of a supplier of EV components to China. Therefore, only mutually beneficial relations are an opportunity for Indonesia to partner with China. Achieving this level of diplomacy requires the Indonesian economy to be more open to other countries in the long term.

The openness to cooperate with other countries will lead to multilateral benefits. It will result in an inflow of capital in the form of FDI from various countries worldwide.