The decarbonisation of the transportation sector is expected to rely on electric vehicles (EV), mainly equipped with Lithium Ion Batteries (LIB). The primary anode material for these batteries is graphite. Graphite is either mined and called natural graphite or graphitised from a carbon precursor, usually needle coke, and called synthetic graphite. There are concerns that the rapid penetration of LIBs could disrupt the natural and synthetic graphite value chains.

A parametric model was developed to quantify the flows in the graphite value chain and its use in electric vehicles between 2020 and 2050 in several scenarios. This model provides the amount of needle coke and graphite ore needed to ensure the supply of the value chains. The scenarios comprise vehicle ownership, size of vehicles, EV penetration, battery chemistries, recycling technologies and the share of natural versus synthetic graphite in batteries. Parallely, a model of petroleum refineries was developed to quantify the maximum supply of needle coke in the different penetration scenarios and compare it with the demand. On the natural graphite side, an analysis of the current situation was conducted to understand the geographical origin of the supply as well as potential barriers to its expansion. Significant attention has been paid to the importance of uncertainty in the model, using Monte Carlo simulation to assess the uncertainty of results.

A parametric model of the demand for graphite was developed. The range of the demand for graphite ore and needle coke varies greatly between the scenarios, with 1312 to 25673 ktons of graphite ore and 3945 to 22301 ktons of needle coke in 2050 in the six selected scenarios. The maximum supply for needle coke varies from 3596 to 39123 ktons depending on EV penetration and flexibility in refineries. The study revealed the dependence of LIB production on the extraction of hydrocarbons leads to supply constraints for synthetic graphite. In scenarios with fast EV penetration, less petroleum is required by the transportation sector, and the supply of needle coke is constrained as a consequence. By replacing conventional vehicles, electric vehicles cut their own supply of needle coke and synthetic graphite. On the other side, graphite ore is abundant, but the lack of infrastructure and development time makes it unlikely to see its supply keep up with the galloping demand.

Only the combination of the most efficient recycling techniques with societal changes, such as lower vehicle ownership and smaller vehicles, can mitigate the risk of graphite supply shortages. However, such recycling rates are impossible to implement today, as the ageing mechanisms of graphite in LIBs are still not fully understood. Therefore, sobriety has a crucial role in decreasing the demand for graphite. It would also bring co-benefits, as smaller vehicles could use alternative battery chemistries and reducing the overall production of EVs would limit environmental impacts related to graphite production.