2 LIBs Pretreatment
There are multiple routes to recycling lithium ion-batteries (LIBs), including pyrometallurgical and hydrometallurgical routes. This paper focuses on the hydrometallurgical route.

Typically, with the commercial hydrometallurgical route, battery recycling is performed with two distinguished steps. The first step is Pretreatment, which is used to separate the components of a battery to produce intermediate products (like Black Mass) using physical methods. The second step is a Hydrometallurgical Process to convert the recovered Black Mass into battery grade products, which may be recycled directly to a precursor of Cathode Active Material (pCAM) Plant. This section deals with the pretreatment of LIBs, the first necessary step in the recycling process, to recover cathode material safely. Figure 1 illustrates the typical pretreatment steps.

3 Hydrometallurgy Process
Black mass treatment is often carried out using the following recycling routes: (1) direct physical regeneration, (2) pyrometallurgy, and (3) hydrometallurgy, or a combination of methods. Pyrometallurgy is an energy-intensive process that generates greenhouse gases (GHG) and toxic fumes or hazardous slag that may need to be buried [1]. Pyrometallurgical recycling may not be a financially feasible solution, particularly because the lithium value is lost to the slag and further process is required to recycle lithium [11]. Direct recycling is still in its infancy [24]. In contrast, hydrometallurgy generates far less GHG and is able to regenerate products that are readily usable in the same value chain to produce pCAM/CAM. In addition, hydrometallurgy is far more financially viable for most States in the USA [19]. Therefore, this article focuses on the available hydrometallurgy process options.

Figure 2 presents high-level block flow diagrams for the recovery of lithium, nickel, and cobalt from black mass. In Option 1, lithium solution and mixed hydroxide precipitates (MHP) are produced. This option requires fewer unit operations and therefore attracts a lower CAPEX and OPEX and typically a shorter timeline to construct since there is no need for solvent extraction and nickel (Ni) or Cobalt (Co) crystallization steps. However, the revenue of these products is lower because it requires the pCAM/CAM (Cathode Active Materials) manufacturers to be able to process the lithium solution to produce battery grade (BG) lithium carbonate or lithium hydroxide monohydrate and to process MHP to produce BG Ni/Co sulfates.

Depending on product quality requirements, solvent extraction and crystallization may be used to produce BG nickel/cobalt /manganese sulphates (or carbonates), which are used to produce pCAM. In solvent extraction, manganese, cobalt, and nickel are individually extracted using an organic solvent in a series of mixer-settlers and are subsequently stripped from the organic solvent in stripping mixer-settlers. The product solutions from the solvent extraction steps are fed to an evaporator to concentrate them, and then to a crystallizer, in which BG grade metal sulfate hydrates crystallize. The barren solution (free of Ni, Co, and Mn) is pumped to the next steps to produce BG lithium carbonate by precipitation or to produce BG lithium hydroxide monohydrate by causticization and subsequent crystallization. Sodium sulphate crystallization is a necessary step to remove sodium from the lithium solutions, to meet product specifications.
4 Project Implementation Paths
Of all three options, there are no existential technology risks since the individual steps of the flowsheet have already been implemented elsewhere at commercial scale. These subprocesses would still need to be combined and integrated to recycle lithium, nickel, manganese, and cobalt. However, at the time of writing this paper, such an integrated commercial-scale Hydromet process has not been demonstrated in North America and Europe, and only pilot plants have been implemented so far by several companies [2, 13, 14, 17] Commercial plant start-ups are anticipated to occur in the next year or so, therefore, this position may change in the short term.

5 Conclusions
The recycling of spent LIBs has been of growing community interest with the boom in portable electronic devices and electric vehicles. LIBs are pretreated and then subjected to pyrometallurgy or hydrometallurgy, or a combination of both processes to extract battery grade lithium, nickel, cobalt, and manganese. Hydrometallurgy process options are promising, due to their lower GHG emission and financial viability.

Implementing the hydrometallurgy process will require rigorous technical studies, regardless of the chosen process, to ensure that the process is appropriately designed for commercial production.
