2.Challenges across the LIBs supply and value chains

2.1.Supply and demand of the battery raw materials

Many advanced and emerging technologies depend on a particular set of raw materials, so called ‘materials dependant’, and LIBs are not exemption. The production of LIBs involves the supply chain of various elements, such as Nickel, Cobalt, Aluminium, Magnesium, Copper, Titanium, Manganese, Iron, Silicon, etc. Fig. 3 and 4 show various elements used in different battery chemistries. According to the European list of critical raw materials (CRMs), Lithium, Cobalt, Magnesium, and natural Graphite are amongst the critical materials that can be found in LIBs (European Commission, 2021). amongst the mentioned elements, there are concerns over the criticality of Lithium, Cobalt, and Graphite as the high supply risks could lead to supply shortages and price volatility (Mayyas et al., 2019). In case of Lithium, concerns over its scarcity was found to be less significant compared to Cobalt (Gaines et al., 2018; Narins, 2017), however, the challenge is whether the mining industry is able to increase Lithium production in short-term to supply the Lithium required for the widespread adoption of LIBs in EVs (Olivetti et al., 2017). 
It is worth noting that producing Lithium requires vast amounts of energy and water, and has considerable environmental impacts (Katwala, 2018; Meshram et al., 2014). The intensive water consumption for Lithium extraction could affect local water security as well as agricultural crop production, and could lead to water imports in producer countries (Harper et al., 2019). Although using the Direct lithium extraction (DLE) could be a promising approach in reducing water footprint of Lithium extraction, there is still more research needed to improve the operation time and cost of the process.
Cobalt has been the centre of criticality concerns which are mainly around the political instability of its main producer (Olivetti et al., 2017). Most of the Cobalt (70%) is mined in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) (USGS, 2020), a country with some political unrest that can affect the cobalt supply and its price (Mayyas et al., 2019). Russia (5%), Australia (4%), Philippines (3%) and Cuba (3%) are the other producers of Cobalt. Moreover, there are some complex social issues with copper-cobalt mining in DRC such as child labour at some small-scale mines (Faber et al., 2017). Compared to Cobalt production from Copper, which is mainly located in DRC, the geological concentration of Cobalt from Nickel mines is not of a concern. However, the production of Cobalt as a by-product of Nickel depends on the demand for Nickel (Olivetti et al., 2017).
Another challenge in the supply of Cobalt is that more than half of the Cobalt and Copper mining companies in DRC are now Chinese-owned (Farchy and Warren, 2018). These companies may give priority to Chinese LIB manufacturers, if supply interruption occur (Mayyas et al., 2019). Moreover, another issue in the supply chain of Cobalt is the concentration of Cobalt refining in China, which makes this country the biggest supplier of the refined Cobalt (Farchy and Warren, 2018). 
It should be noted that concerns over the natural Graphite supply is also mainly around the concentration of both production and reserves in China (Mayyas et al., 2019). These seem to be only short-term concerns due to the abundance of Graphite around the globe and recent exploration and development in some other countries (Olivetti et al., 2017).
Overall, differences in the assumed concentration of minerals, reserve estimates, and the uncertain nature of future extraction projects led to variability in the supply estimation of the required materials for batteries (Olivetti et al., 2017). Another supply chain challenge is the uncertainty in the battery material demand estimations. In fact, estimations of exact quantities of materials required for the emerging applications of LIBs are complicated and uncertain. The primary market for LIBs was consumer electronics, while EVs, personal mobility and stationary energy storage are the emerging markets for LIBs; increasingly demanding more batteries (Fig. 1). Among these markets, the consumer electronics is mature and, therefore, the estimations are relatively reliable. In contrast, the demand for EVs, personal mobility and stationary energy storage are highly speculative. Battery demand projections for such markets differ significantly due to variability in the battery chemistry, battery material intensity, EV use and penetration estimations, and other battery application parameters (Olivetti et al., 2017).
As the production of LIBs ramps up to meet the growing demand in the mobility and grid energy storage applications, the environmental impacts of mining and upgrading battery materials need also more attention (Mayyas et al., 2019). A challenge is that the required data for environmental impact assessment of mining and upgrading activities of battery materials are not available for the majority of mines (or production sites) across the different regions. Some widely used databases for life cycle assessment (LCA) studies provide the life cycle inventory from only a few mines while considering only one or two conversion routes for minerals. For example, there are many routes for the creation of NiSO but the available inventories do not differentiate them. Overall, there is still not enough research to provide comprehensive and reliable environmental impact assessment in these areas.
It should also be highlighted that upstream activities of battery material production as well as cell manufacturing consume a great deal of energy and therefore the energy supply as well as the consequent environmental impacts of such processes depends on the electricity mix and heat sources (Kelly et al., 2020). For some battery materials, the required energy for mining, or other upgrading processes (e.g. beneficiation, primary extraction, and refining) is mainly provided by electricity (from the grids with considerable fossil fuel shares) or fossil fuels such as natural gas, coal, diesel, etc. This has to change and using renewable energy sources to power the mining and upgrading activities are needed.

2.2. Manufacturing considerations
A recent Bloomberg NEF report has shown that the average cost of LIBs (pack prices) in the market fell by 89% within the last decade, reached to $137/kWh in 2020 (compared to $1191/kWh in 2010) (BloombergNEF, 2020). It should be noted that about 26% ($35/kWh) of the pack prices in 2020 belongs to the pack portion (pack level materials, i.e. excluding cells) of the battery while the rest belongs to the cell portion. Although pack prices of less than $100/kWh was reported for batteries in electric buses in China in 2020, the average market price is expected to reach close to $100/kWh by 2023 (BloombergNEF, 2020) and further down to $58–73/kWh by 2030 (BloombergNEF, 2020; IHS Markit, 2020). Nevertheless, the cost of battery manufacturing is still a key challenge that impedes the widespread adoption of LIBs for transportation and grid storage applications. In fact, further improvement in energy storage efficiency (in terms of both volume and weight) and costs reductions are needed for LIBs (Masias et al., 2021) to increase the penetration of EVs into the market even faster. Moreover, reducing the manufacturing costs will also support the widespread use of renewable energies in electricity generation (i.e. grid storage applications).
There are some cost reduction approaches suggested in the literature, e.g. material selection and innovation, improvement in manufacturing process, pack and cell design improvements, water-based processing, and use of solid state batteries. However, they come with their own challenges (Daniel, 2015; Masias et al., 2021). The diversity of approaches to reduce the battery manufacturing cost makes predictions for 2030 uncertain; depending on the adopted approaches, the pack prices could be lower/higher, or the costs could be reduced sooner/later than 2030. Also, raw material supply disruptions or price volatility could make it challenging for battery manufacturers to trade-off between the manufacturing cost reduction and the economies of scales.
As a cost and environmental impact reduction opportunity, closing the loop in the LIBs value chain through recycling is a promising solution (Masias et al., 2021). However, the current designs of LIBs have made it difficult to recycle. Therefore, the designers and manufacturers should consider the end-of-life treatment and recycling efforts to design a modular and easy to disassemble and recycle battery (Sommerville et al., 2021). The other issue with the manufacturing is the high amount of energy needed for this stage and its consequent environmental impacts. Recent LCA reports show that the manufacturing stage is the main contributors to the life cycle energy consumption and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of LIBs (Ciez and Whitacre, 2019; Dai et al., 2019a; Kelly et al., 2020). This means that when considering cradle to gate emissions, LIB manufacturing could lead to higher GHG emissions of a battery electric vehicle compared to that of an internal combustion engine (Kawamoto et al., 2019; Kim et al., 2016). Apart from energy consumption optimization or advancing technologies to reduce energy consumption, the carbon intensity of the energy source used for manufacturing is a critical parameter. It is obvious that energy mixes consisting of a higher proportion of fossil fuel will increase the GHG emissions of LIBs life cycle.
