A significant part of the literature on low-carbon transition focuses on improved means for energy storage, a key element to support the increasing demand for technologies that use renewable energy sources (Sovacool et al. 2020). Batteries have been improving in efficiency with the introduction of new materials to increase energy density; however, the increased demand for these metals and minerals makes evident new problems along the including accessibility to resources and waste management (Sovacool et al. 2019). From the perspective of resources accessibility, efforts are required to understand the real and tangible costs of using critical raw materials, along with alternatives to mitigate these impacts with strategies such as recycling and substitution.

Similar to the results by Santillån-Saldivar et al. (2020) on the GeoPolEndpoint method, the relative contribution to the supply risk of aluminum, cobalt, copper, and nickel can be considered stable over the analyzed period. However, cobalt stands out as having the highest supply risk among the analyzed resources, a reflection of its which includes countries with perceived high geopolitical risk at the early stages (DR Congo and China). The transition to an endpoint level highlights the relevance of cobalt in the economic damages associated with resource use. Nickel appears also with a smaller share attributable to a high contribution in mass and relatively high geopolitical supply risk. For the case of NMC-LIB, the effect of the use of cobalt displaces the contribution of other resources, making them negligible in comparison. A question remains on how these compare to other environmental impacts at the midpoint and endpoint levels.

Specifically for the comparison between abiotic depletion potential and the supply risk,
cobalt and aluminum gain higher visibility when using the characterization model based
on the GeoPolRisk method. This is a reflection of the supply constraints in the cobalt
and the increasing participation of China and Russia in the supply mix of
aluminum to the European Union during the analyzed period (United Nations 2020). Thus,
the GeoPolRisk method provides another layer of assessment by highlighting barriers to
resource accessibility rather than their overall geological availability.

Most open and available data sources focus on the mining and refining stages: the further a material moves through its life cycle, the more challenging it is to track. Thus, given data constraints, the GeoPolRisk method privileges the use of mining information. This is also evident when addressing recycling considerations as a supply risk-mitigating factor, as previously discussed by Santillån-Saldivar et al. (2021). More work is required to identify other sources of impact associated with the accessibility to resources at further stages in their Supply-chain and identify supply risks of intermediary products, especially since these could represent a higher source of risk in the overall supply chain. Another known limitation of the GeoPolRisk method is the analysis of coproducts; resources that could be mined together are analyzed independently based on individual global production and trade information.

