The lithium-ion value chain begins with the extraction of raw materials, the most significant of which are lithium, cobalt, and nickel, which are then refined for further processing. More than 90 percent of the world's lithium is produced in five countries: Australia, Chile, Argentina, Bolivia, and China. China is the largest refiner of lithium, accounting for 61 percent of total capacity, followed by Chile (30 percent) and Argentina (9 percent). The concentration is even greater in cobalt, where the Democratic Republic of Congo accounts for over three-quarters of the world's output and operational mining capacity (most cobalt is produced as a byproduct of either copper or nickel). China accounts for a similarly high share of cobalt refining capacity, at 72 percent, with the balance being largely in Europe. Nickel production is geographically dispersed, with Russia, the largest producer, accounting for 20 percent of global nameplate mining capacity (this refers to Class 1 nickel). A similar dispersion is visible in refining: in this market, China's share is just 16 percent.

These refined materials, alongside others, are turned into components, the most important of which are cathodes, anodes, separators, and electrolytes. The processing capacity for these components is largely concentrated in China, Japan, and Korea, mainly due to the legacy of established battery manufacturers for consumer products. Among these Asian producers, however, it is China that holds the largest market share: 52 percent for cathodes, which is the most important component and can account for half the cost of a manufactured cell, 78 percent for anodes, 66 percent for separators, and 62 percent for electrolytes. The United States only has a meaningful presence in electrolytes with 8 percent of processing capacity, largely because electrolytes are liquid, hard to transport, and therefore often produced near cell-manufacturing facilities. The country's footprint in the other components is largely non-existent.

These components are then turned into cells, which can then be assembled into modules, packs, or racks depending on the end use. Around 78 percent of the world's cell manufacturing capacity is located in China, with some modest capacity in Europe and the United States. Looking ahead, there is far more planned capacity additions in China and in Europe than in the United States—even if every project went ahead, the United States would still only have about one-tenth of China's cell manufacturing capacity by 2025.

The solar PV manufacturing value chain can be broken down into five main components: polysilicon, ingots, wafers, cells, and modules. The upstream parts of the value chain—polysilicon and wafers— are technically challenging, capital intensive, and with high barriers to entry. They are also highly consolidated: the top ten firms supplied 83 percent (polysilicon) and 95 percent (wafers) of the market (most ingot capacity exists within wafer plants and is not reported separately) in 2019.

The Chinese presence in the polysilicon market has grown over time. Since 2017, 91 percent of the new polysilicon processing capacity in the world has been built in China, and by 2019, two-thirds of the world's polysilicon manufacturing capacity was owned by Chinese firms (regardless of factory location). At the high end of the market sits a German manufacturer, Wacker-Chemie, and major Korean players are still important in the market, although some major producers have gone out of business recently. T he story is even starker when it comes to wafer manufacturing. More than 90 percent of the world's capacity is in China, and having control over this part of the value chain has been essential to the country's dominance of the PV supply chain. Wafer factories are expensive and technically challenging to build. As major buyers of upstream materials in the value chain, wafer manufacturers can use their bargaining power to negotiate favorable supply terms, making it even harder for newcomers to break into the market.

The story is even starker when it comes to wafer manufacturing. More than 90 percent of the world's capacity is in China, and having control over this part of the value chain has been essential to the country's dominance of the PV supply chain. Wafer factories are expensive and technically challenging to build. As major buyers of upstream materials in the value chain, wafer manufacturers can use their bargaining power to negotiate favorable supply terms, making it even harder for newcomers to break into the market.

A similar dynamic is visible in module manufacturing. Here too, the upfront cost and complexity is lower than in the upstream parts of the supply chain, but vertical integration confers an advantage to existing producers, thus benefiting China. Chinese companies own about 72 percent of the world's module manufacturing capacity (regardless of factory location), a share that has stayed the same since 2016.