As part of a global effort to reach carbon neutrality by 2050, multiple countries have set ambitious goals for electric vehicle (EV) deployment (IEA 2021, Guterres 2022). Approximately 80-90% of current EVs utilize rare earth permanent magnets in their traction motors (Roskill 2019, Rao and Bagianathan 2021, Sigal 2022). Sintered Nd-Fe-B magnets are used in EV motors due to their favorable characteristics, including high coercivity, thermal properties, and maximum energy product (BH)max range. One of the largest challenges of the Nd-Fe-B supply chain is that most magnet manufacturing takes place in China (92%) making the rest of the world (ROW) reliant on China's output (Smith, Riddle et al. 2022). To alleviate permanent magnet supply chain concerns, major magnet research technologies have flourished including grain boundary diffusion, additive manufacturing, alternative magnets, hydrogen decrepitation and hydrogen disproportionation desorption recombination, and dual alloy (Sugimoto 2011, Coey 2020, Liu, He et al. 2022). One alternative magnet developed by researchers with the Critical Materials Institute (CMI) is a lanthanum-neodymium (La-Nd) magnet as a substitute for sintered Nd-Fe-B magnets. In the La-Nd substitute, lanthanum and cobalt replace some of the neodymium and dysprosium used in the traditional sintered Nd-Fe-B magnet.

China's dominance in the permanent magnet supply chain extends to the world's market for rare earth element (REE) mining and refining. In 2020, China was responsible for over 58% of global REE mining (Smith, Riddle et al. 2022) and 90% of refining (Smith, Riddle et al. 2022). Due to this global reliance on China's REE supplies, global markets can be influenced by the Chinese government and firms through nationwide policymaking or production decisions, respectively (Smith, Riddle et al. 2022). As China pursues consolidation of REE mining companies into a small number of government-owned entities, the criticality of this issue has increased (Smith, Riddle et al. 2022).

In addition to constraints within the permanent magnet supply chain, hinderances exist in the EV battery supply chain as well. Important battery metals such as lithium, cobalt, and nickel have seen increases in demand, and already are experiencing supply chain constraints (Erickson 2021). To combat some of these concerns, auto manufacturers are looking towards battery technologies that do not rely as heavily on cobalt (Lambert 2022, Volkswagen 2022). Volkswagen has already stated its intent to reduce cobalt content in its batteries and is working to develop cobalt-free battery cells (Volkswagen 2022). Tesla has confirmed that over half of its currently produced vehicles are using cobalt-free lithium-iron-phosphate (LFP) batteries (Lambert 2022). Specific cobalt supply chain challenges include a poor political stability in mining countries, a concentrated supply market, and cobalt mining as a byproduct of copper and nickel (van den Brink, Kleijn et al. 2020). In 2020, 68% of cobalt was mined in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) (USGS 2022) which has long been characterized by political instability, causing the country to face widespread poverty and human injustice (Council on Foreign Relations 2022). Additionally, a recent Roskill report found that of the nineteen cobalt mines in the DRC operating in 2020, fifteen were owned or financed by Chinese companies (Searcey, Forsythe et al. 2021). China plays an even larger role in cobalt refining. In 2020, approximately 80% of battery-grade cobalt was produced by China (MiningDotCom 2021).

There have been several studies that utilized system dynamics (SD) to model the REE supply chain. Kifle, Sverdrup et. al modeled the REE supply chain as a simple dynamic system to understand how future demand affects REE resource depletion (Kifle, Sverdrup et al. 2013). Their conclusion was that effective recycling policies should be put in place to create a sustainable REE supply. However, individual REEs were not modeled and represented as an aggregated commodity instead. Keilhacker and Minner developed a more complex SD model to represent the REE supply chain for ∼10 years. The major conclusion was that substituting rare earth material in major applications mitigated the greatest supply unavailability. Yet, by only analyzing a short time period, the model did not give an in depth look at the REE supply chain's response to changing REE demand, mine reserve depletion, or long-term price impacts (Keilhacker and Minner 2017). In addition, the effects of global electrification and its increased demand for REEs were neglected in the model with specific applications considered being catalysts, glass polishing, glass additives, metallurgical alloys, phosphor powder, ceramics, Nd-Fe-B magnets, and battery alloys. The model did analyze the effect of hypothetical substitution mechanisms through research and development on the REE supply chain. However, it did not explicitly consider the effect of a specific product of research and development on the supply chain (Keilhacker and Minner 2017).

Due to variations in density, maximum energy product, remanence, coercivity, and other physical and magnetic properties, a magnet cannot simply be substituted in an application/device with an equivalent mass. The magnetic performance of the system changes with magnet volume. However, traded magnet quantities and raw materials are reported in mass. For this reason, it is important to have a substitution mechanism based on mass. The model utilized a methodology that calculated an output of a magnet performance ratio that could be multiplied by the substituted mass to yield the mass of the substituting magnet offering the same magnetic performance. More details and information on this mechanism can be found in the supporting document (supporting section 1.1).

Once the permanent magnet demand was calculated from EVs and other applications, it was used as inputs to the REO and cobalt demand modules. Due to the similarities between the two modules, the description here represents both modules. The modules calculated the theoretical demand of REOs and cobalt utilizing the compositions of the magnets. Additionally, theoretical demand for cobalt and REOs was generated for non-permanent magnet categories by applying a growth rate to an initial value (Table S13, Table S14). Non-magnet cobalt applications included non-EV batteries, EV new batteries, EV replacement batteries, super alloys, hard materials, catalysts, pigments, hard facing alloys, and other applications (Roskill 2018). Non-magnet REO applications included rare earth catalysts, metallurgy, phosphors, and “glass, polishing, & ceramics” (Roskill 2018). Following generation of theoretical demand for REOs and cobalt, an adjusted commodity demand was calculated that accounted for the lead time, and price of each commodity and can be seen in more detail in (Nguyen, Eggert et al. 2020).

The cobalt and REO primary production modules were responsible for developing the output of commodities from mining and refining operations. Both modules expand capacity by observing continuous demand growth of each commodity as previously described in (Nguyen, Eggert et al. 2020). To develop actual production from production capacity, supply curves for REEs and cobalt were implemented (Figure S3 and Figure S4, supporting document) that took a normalized commodity price as input. Normalized prices are calculated by dividing the model's outputted prices by expected prices and are explained in more detail in Section 2.7. Additionally, both modules examined the global mining reserves of the respective commodities. As mentioned earlier, the main difference between this model and previous work was that resources in this paper were constrained. As a particular country's reserves of a commodity decreased or ran out, the model compensated by adjusting the composition of the mined ore. Additionally, China's REE production was further analyzed by reserves of the six major REE mining companies. When reserves for a company decreased or ran out, the model adjusted the composition of China's total orebody to reflect the depletion.

The “Business as Usual” (BAU) scenario modeled the cobalt and REE supply chains with the current understanding of EV technologies and mineral resources. In this scenario, EV sales were constrained by the assumption that 90% of EVs sold would have REE permanent magnet traction motors (Roskill 2019), and the permanent magnet was an N42SH sintered Nd-Fe-B magnet. The results showed a maximum value of EV sales of ∼15.9 million vehicles in 2034 (as opposed to ∼70 million EVs in 2050 in the IEA APS scenario) before a subsequent decline in EV sales due to a lack of cobalt supply for permanent magnet motor production from the years 2020 to 2034. The key constraint to EV sales in this scenario was the availability of traction motors. Even though only a very small amount of cobalt was needed in the sintered Nd-Fe-B composition (1%), it proved to be a key limiting factor of EV sales. Most of the cobalt supply that went to EV and non-EV batteries was subsequently hindered by a lack of reserves with DRC and ROW cobalt reserves nearing depletion in 2036 and 2038, respectively.

Also depicted in Fig. 2a was a “La-Nd Deployment” (LaD) scenario which showed the non-impact of CMI's La-Nd magnet on EV sales. Due to the quantity of cobalt in the magnet, at no point does the magnet become economically favorable for substitution with the default magnet, an N42SH sintered Nd-Fe-B magnet. To test alternative scenarios, a simulation was performed that utilized an N35AH grade sintered Nd-Fe-B magnet as the default magnet for EV traction motors (BAU: N35AH and LaD: N35AH scenarios). Fig. 2b shows that when this magnet was the default, the La-Nd magnet had a much greater impact on EV sales yielding a maximum increase in EV sales of ∼3.3 million in 2036. Cumulatively, the total EV sales over the course of the simulation for the LaD: N35AH scenario was 170 million EVs compared to 147 million EVs in the BAU: N35AH. Additionally, an average decrease in Dy prices of 37% from the year of deployment (2027) to the end of the simulation and a maximum decrease of 74% was observed.

Since cobalt was identified as the primary constraint in the previous section, different scenarios were individually developed that attempted to increase EV sales by reducing the cobalt content required in EVs. First, a “Reduced Cobalt Content in EV Batteries” (RCB) scenario was tested to reduce cobalt content in EV batteries by 80% over 20 years starting in 2022. The results showed (Fig. 3) a maximum of EV sales of ∼21 million EVs in year 2035 with an approximate increase of ∼5 million vehicles in the year 2035 compared to the BAU scenario. The decrease in cobalt for EV batteries increases the cobalt supply for the magnet sector in this scenario compared to BAU. This illustrates how reducing competing demand for certain applications is important to increase supply for other applications. However, towards the end of the simulation, the constraint in this scenario remains cobalt in sintered Nd-Fe-B magnet motors. Therefore, the benefit of reduced cobalt in EV batteries was not effective to increasing the model's output of EV sales.

Based on the results of the analysis, there are several key takeaways based on a constrained cobalt and REE resource assumption that could be utilized by stakeholders of the relevant supply chains.

First, the model highlighted the importance of utilizing alternative EV traction motor technologies in order to realize the ambitious goals set forth in the APS scenario from IEA. Alternative EV traction motors technologies could include non-permanent magnet motors such as induction or switched reluctance motors, or they could include permanent magnet motors that don't rely as heavily on rare earth elements or cobalt. Supply constraints of both cobalt and the key sintered Nd-Fe-B magnet elements (Nd, Pr, Dy) prevented EV sales from meeting the goals of the APS scenario evidenced by the BAU scenario (cobalt) and the “Cobalt Free Sintered Nd-Fe-B EV Magnets” scenario (REEs). The largest challenge with addressing this issue is that the current state of technology favors RE permanent magnets in EV traction motors due to their improved performance over non-RE motors and non-PM motors.

Second, in addition to concerns with EV traction motor availability, the results indicated that in order to meet the early deployment targets set forth by the APS scenario, EVs will need to be dependent on non-cobalt battery technologies. Significant gaps between the APS scenario and model results for EV sales indicate that cobalt supply will be insufficient requiring additional technologies to supplement deployment.

Third, in conjunction with the inability to meet early deployment quantities of EVs, the model showed that under a constrained cobalt resource assumption, cobalt availability would be a major concern moving forward. This indicates the importance of continued cobalt resource exploration, improvement of economic feasibility of extraction, and finding unconventional sources.