Lithium-ion batteries (LIBs) deployed in energy storage systems (ESS) can reduce the carbon intensity of the electricity generating sector. LIB demand is likely to continue to grow, requiring additional raw materials. Impacts from the upstream processes needed to convert raw materials into battery components are not fully understood. The aim of this study is to use life cycle assessment (LCA) modeling, using the openLCA platform and data from public and private sources, to quantify environmental impacts along the full supply chain for cobalt, a crucial component in many types of LIB. The LCA will quantify the cradle-to-grave impacts for a number of standard impact pathways, including global warming potential (GWP), acidification potential (AP), eutrophication potential (EP), and others that are attributed to the mining, extraction, refining, and transportation of cobalt products for LIBs, and also the use and disposal of the LIBs. We assume a 30-year modeling period and include LIB replacement. Three refinery locations, a range of ore grades, two energy options (wind and solar), and three battery chemistries (NCA, NMC111, and NMC811) are modeled to better understand their effect on the life cycle impacts. The results show that impacts begin to increase non-linearly as ore grade drops below 3%; refining outside of China can reduce GWP by over 12%; the impacts for NCA and NMC811 batteries are 63% and 74% lower than NMC111, respectively; and the impacts associated with pairing an NMC811 battery with wind generation are 32% less than with solar. The results shed light on which processes in the LIB cobalt supply chain are most environmentally impactful, how these impacts vary across different scenarios, and what can be expected with time, as wind and solar electricity generation increases. This research will help the energy industry understand cobalt supply chain processes and identify ways to reduce environmental burdens of LIBs. Policy makers and the private sector can use this work to consider key locations and activities to direct further investment.

Lithium-ion batteries (LIBs) are key to decarbonizing both the transportation and electricity generation industries. Due to decreasing prices and improvements in energy density and efficiency, LIBs are the leading battery technology used in EVs and are becoming cost-competitive with fossil fuel electricity generation, when paired with renewables as ESSs (Kallitsis et al., 2020; Pellow et al., 2020). LIBs are characterized by the metals used in the battery cathode, and the most common cathode chemistries are lithium nickel manganese cobalt oxide (NMC), lithium iron phosphate (LFP), lithium manganese oxide (LMO), lithium cobalt oxide (LCO), and lithium nickel cobalt aluminum oxide (NCA). LMO and LCO are typically used in personal electronics, such as laptops and cell phone batteries, while NMC, NCA, and LFP are used for both EVs and ESSs (Porzio and Scown, 2021). Olivetti et al. (2017) explain the nickel content of NMC batteries has been increasing compared to manganese and cobalt, and Alves Dias et al. (2018) predict this trend of cathode chemistries with higher nickel contents and lower amounts of cobalt is expected to continue through at least the end of the decade. For example, NMC111 have been optimized into NMC811, where the numerical designation is ratio of nickel, manganese, and cobalt by mass; hence NMC811 has a comparatively higher energy density than NMC111 and a ratio of 8 to 1 to 1 for nickel, manganese, and cobalt by mass (Olivetti et al., 2017). NCA batteries have the highest energy density of commercially available LIB technologies and also an increased ratio of nickel compared to cobalt (Alves Dias et al., 2018). LFPs do not contain nickel or cobalt, two of the most expensive components of LIB cathodes (Greenwood et al., 2021). Additionally, Crawford et al. (2018) explain LFPs are safer than NMC and NCA batteries, as they have lower risk of overheating due to thermal runaway. While cheaper and safer than the nickel and cobalt-bearing chemistries, LFPs are less energy dense, so they weigh more per unit of storage capacity (Majeau-Bettez et al., 2011; Quan et al., 2022). Trends suggest that LFP market share will grow because of its relatively low cost and higher cycle life in both EVs and ESSs (Wood Mackenzie, 2020; Porzio and Scown, 2021). Recently, Wayland (2021) and Kolodny (2022) noted that EV manufacturers Tesla and Rivian will shift to using LFP batteries; however, Tesla will still use NCA batteries in its vehicles that optimize driving range. Wood Mackenzie (2020) explains that, because cost and safety are prioritized over weight for energy storage applications of LIBs, LFPs are expected to gain significant ESS market share in the coming years. Figure 1.5 shows future ESS market share predictions by cathode chemistry, and while LFPs are predicted to comprise a consequential share of the ESS market by 2030, NMCs and NCAs will still contribute significantly to the storage market. 

LiBs are expected to continue to dominate the energy storage market moving forward (U. S. Department of Energy, 2020). Figure 1.6 shows how the market for grid related storage has grown in recent years, with the U.S. Department of Energy (2020) expecting grid related storage to increase globally 15 times by 2030. The IEA (2021b) projects that, to meet global emissions goals, EVs on the road will need to increase from 10 million in 2020 to 300 million by the end of the decade. According to studies by the IEA (2021d), the World Bank (2020) and others, the prevalence of LIBs will put a substantial burden on the supply chains for the materials needed for manufacturing. Cobalt demand, for example, is expected to rise by over 2000% by some estimates from the IEA (2021d). Understanding cobalt, its sources, and how it is produced in the context of LIBs is essential to ensure that this demand is met.

A transparent and accurate analysis of the life cycle impact of the cobalt supply chain can be useful in understanding how the increased cobalt demand might affect the environment. The cobalt supply chain for LiBs includes mining, processing of ore into intermediate products, refining of battery grade products, transportation, disposal, and recycling. As described throughout this thesis, this cradle-to-grave study includes each process in the cobalt supply chain from extraction through decommissioning and disposal of LIBs. Shedd et al. (2017) notes that no other country is in position to increase supply to replace DRC. Therefore, only copper-cobalt ore deposits in the DRC are considered. While human rights concerns associated with cobalt mining in the DRC are a serious issue that must be addressed, the impacts of artisanal mining are not included in the scope of this study due to lack of data.

While the environmental impacts of cobalt supply chain processes have been investigated previously, efforts to quantify the impacts of individual processes and how they relate to LIBs are lacking. Life cycle assessment (LCA) is an internationally standardized, quantitative analytical method used to evaluate the full scope of environmental impacts across an entire product's life (Finnveden et al., 2009). LCA was established in 1969 by a manager at the Coca-Cola Company seeking to quantify the impacts of manufacturing soda packaging (Hunt and Franklin, 1996). McManus and Taylor (2015) explain that the need for standardized methods for conducting LCA emerged as environmental issues became more important in the 1980s and 1990s, giving rise to adoption by the International Organization of Standardization (ISO) of LCA standards in the late 1990s, later updated in 2006 (ISO, 2006). Hunkeler and Rebitzer (2005) note that the focus of LCAs has shifted from individual industrial processes to entire supply chain of products, and related components. Most recently, LCA has become a useful tool for comparing the direct and indirect environmental burdens of energy systems (Hsu et al., 2012).