In short, understanding the evolution of the LiB production network requires an approach that can capture key elements of interaction and political-economic organisation across and between, and not only along, existing supply chains. This paper shows how a global production network (GPN) approach can provide a more holistic understanding. The GPN approach is part of a broader family of relational approaches for understanding the organisation of economic activity, and was designed to address the ‘organisationally fragmented and spatially dispersed’ character of economic structures [6].2 A ‘production network’ is an “organisational platform through which actors in different regional and national economies compete and co-operate for a greater share of value creation, transformation, and capture though geographically dispersed economic activity” [6,p. 30]. GPN researchers foreground these organisational platforms to analyse the spatial fragmentation of production and service activities and their implications for uneven and regional development. GPN is, then, a meso-scale heuristic – it operates between structure and agency [6] – and was first developed to understand changes in the geographic organisation of manufacturing and services at the world scale [9], [14], [15]. A key feature of GPN is its explicit focus on “the relationship between geographic extensification of economic activities and the activities' organizational integration and coordination” [16, p.218]. GPN embraces multiple geographic scales; recognises a plurality of economic actors extending beyond firms; acknowledges the unevenness of regional development outcomes; and explores how the dynamic geographies of production emerge from interactions among a network's constituent parts [16].

Our aim is to situate the battery mineral supply within a GPN that extends ‘downstream’ through battery manufacturing to end use application; and which shifts the focus from material flows and transformations to the actors, networks and activities that maintain the network and shape its geographies. Our GPN account is informed by a close engagement with existing documentation on the battery sector, and by original empirical material collected via semi-structured interviews with a dozen respondents involved in battery R&D and commercialization at collaborative interfaces of academia, research institutions, industry and government in Australia, the EU and UK between June and September 2021. Our analysis augments conventional supply chain accounts based on battery manufacturing in two ways: (i) by identifying the economic and non-economic actors, interrelations and multiple locations that constitute the GPN – specifically the state as a multi-faceted actor within the LiB GPN; (ii) by focusing on different firm strategies of innovation, cooperation and competition through which this network acquires its organisationally and geographically dynamic character; and (iii) by demonstrating the importance of inter-industry intersections. These latter points are particularly important, as emergent geographies of production (and strategic responses to them by states and corporations) are an important dynamic constituting the network. Our GPN approach is well-adapted for understanding how the business of battery production is increasingly influenced by actors and strategies linked to automobile manufacturing, and to a range of ‘infrastructural’ actors associated with construction, electric utilities and fossil fuel retailing. In short, it shows how these intersections and network characteristics increasingly drive the organisational, material and geographical forms of battery production.

The paper is structured into five sections. In the next section (Section 2) we introduce battery manufacturing as an organisationally integrated but geographically dispersed process of material production and assembly. Section 3 reviews relevant literature, highlighting its focus on the input-output structures of supply chains and associated work on, material flows, lifecycle analyses and total material requirements. We offer a sympathetic critique of supply-chain approaches but advocate for a GPN perspective better suited to exploring the intersections of battery production with mobility and power sector infrastructures and foregrounding the role of strategic action by firms and states in shaping the organisation and geographies of battery production. Section 4 outlines the battery production network using a GPN perspective. It identifies the actors, network forms and territorial dimensions of battery production, emphasising the network's organisational and geographical characteristics; and it outlines three important dynamics shaping contemporary battery production networks. We conclude in Section 5 with a discussion of findings and their implications for the geopolitical economy of energy system transformation.

Battery production takes place in large-scale facilities (‘gigafactories’) in which individual cells are fabricated, combined into battery modules and (sometimes) assembled as packs for a particular end user [44]. A single battery for a Tesla Model Y, for example, comprises 4416 cells, and a single production line can produce around 7 million cells per month [45].12 Global deployment of battery gigafactories has grown rapidly, from 3 factories (with a total capacity of around 60 GWh) in 2015 to around 150 factories (with a total capacity of 1000 GWh) at the end of 2021. The ‘pipeline’ to 2030 (i.e. plants currently producing, under-construction or planned) now runs to over 280 with a combined capacity of around 6000 GWh. [46], [222]. Gigafactory growth is currently driven by automotive demand, with China and Europe expected to be the largest contributors where battery demand is linked to decarbonisation of road transport [47]. In Europe, for example, at least 11 countries have proposed bans on the sale of new vehicles powered by internal combustion engines between 2030 and 2035. Battery weight, and their high cost as a proportion of total vehicle manufacturing costs (particularly in the context of ‘rules of origin’ in international trade that specify a certain proportion of local content by value), means there is a significant pull towards market location in battery production [48]. As a result, EV manufacturing by automotive OEMs in Europe, China, Japan and the US is now a key driver of the geography of new battery manufacturing capacity. Table 1 shows how battery production capacity is concentrated in Japan, Korea and China [49]. China alone represented around 77% of global battery production capacity in 2021 [47], part of a national strategy to control the mid-stream sector of the supply chain (BMI 2021). In China, CATL has emerged as significant player with around a quarter of global market share [45].

This section reviews academic and grey literature on LiB production, noting how much of this work adopts a supply chain approach. It then introduces the Global Production Network (GPN) approach as an alternative perspective. We exclude an extensive technical literature other than key pieces that shed light on organisational and geographical characteristics of global battery production.

A large literature on battery mineral supply chains traces sequential processes of material transformation and trade associated with battery production. A primary focus of this work are the ‘upstream’ implications of battery manufacturing for supply and demand dynamics in mineral raw materials (see for example [3], [4], [5]). Research includes (dynamic) material flow analyses ([78], [79], [80], [81]), analyses of trade structures ([21], [82], [83], [84], [85]), supply risk [86] and mineral life cycles, including the battery R&D life cycle [87]. Supply chain analyses of the battery sector highlight the direct, indirect and hidden material flows associated with total material requirements of a global energy transition [88], and the dynamic interactions between renewable power generation, electricity grids and battery storage [89]. A technical literature on the evolution of battery technology supplements these material analyses, exploring state-of-the-art battery technologies, post-Li and non-LiBs, and technology development and R&D needs in the context of barriers for wider deployment [26]. Some of this work highlights research gaps around organisational and geographical aspects of the supply chain: research on battery patents, for example, notes a need for “a disaggregation of the GVC [Global Value Chain] and a deep knowledge of its various components and technologies” [90], and how its consequences for knowledge and innovation mean that “sectoral configuration…deserves more attention” [91], [92], [93], [94].

A broader set of studies seek to contextualize upstream or downstream elements of the battery supply chain. Upstream, a growing body of work considers the contribution of battery mineral production to equitable forms of resource-based development. Cohen and Riofrancos [95], for example, consider the role of lithium extraction in relation to Latin America's Green (New) Deal, while several authors reflect on how battery mineral production reproduces ‘colonial’ relations of resource extraction that overlook indigenous knowledge [96], [97], [98], [99], [100], [101]. Downstream, research focuses on demand arising from battery applications in electric mobility, especially EVs [102], [103], and includes work on demand reduction strategies [104], [105], [106] and circular strategies to reduce raw material reliance. The latter includes design for reuse and recycling [107], circular business models and supporting policy, cascading secondary uses that extend batteries beyond end-of-life in their first use.

Our deployment of a GPN approach in this paper aligns with this objective, as we think a different way is needed to understand the battery supply chain as a significant part of the geopolitical economy of energy transformation. While GPN has yet to be applied to the battery sector, it has been used in the context of upstream lithium extraction. Researchers examining the efforts of states in the ‘Lithium Triangle’ to develop a downstream industry [155], [156] have found GPN’s focus on extra-national relations useful for countering national-scale modes of analysis which ‘push questions about the transnational organization of production into the background’ [17]. Obaya et al. [157] adopt a GPN perspective to explore how lithium extraction in Argentina is embedded in a wider network of relations that are structured in ways that constrain state efforts to promote forward/downstream linkages. Bos and Forget’s [158] analysis of lithium production in Bolivia captures the capacity of a GPN perspective for understanding the ‘multi-scalar strategies and practices of forward and backward integration’ in a production network, and the role of the state as an ‘inter-scalar mediator’ in this process. Their analysis considers the ‘Lithium Triangle’ as a ‘global node’ in a wider network, and highlights efforts by the Bolivian state to integrate its resources into this network via a strategy of majority state control in alliance with external (German, Chinese) partners. In sum, existing applications to battery minerals adopt GPN as a loose heuristic – a way of invoking the organisation and control of downstream production and its influence on extraction – but papers remain focused on regional/national challenges of harnessing lithium extraction for resource-based development. By contrast, we deploy a GPN approach to (1) consider the organisation of battery production from mineral extraction through to end-uses in mobile and stationary energy storage and differing firm strategies along this chain; (2) highlight the increasing intersection of battery manufacturing with the automotive and power sectors; and (3) identify the multiple roles of the state in shaping the geographies of battery production. By exploring these three features, our GPN analysis augments conventional supply chain accounts and demonstrates how the global battery production network acquires its organisationally and geographically dynamic character. With regard to the state, GPN research acknowledges the role of geopolitics in network formation [159], [160], [161]; considers how state action secures the conditions for accumulation around new technologies and infrastructures26; and unpacks the state’s multiple functions in constituting production networks to reveal roles as facilitator, regulator, producer, and buyer [162]. Such distinctions are particularly apposite in the context of the LiB production network which, as we show in Section 4, is strongly shaped by state action: to facilitate the growth of mobile and stationary energy storage markets (e.g. petrol and diesel engine phase outs, EV uptake); regulate investment and trade (e.g. local supply chain obligations for foreign investors, trade policy); and act as a buyer via, for example, public procurement of battery-driven public transport vehicles or strategic purchases of critical minerals.