GVC measures to assess the extent of participation by countries trading intermediate goods leading to integration into a final good are presented below based on the availability of relevant trade data. 279 Several trade-data based indicators reveal the prominence of a country's participation at intermediateproduct levels as products cross borders along the EV Li-ion battery GVC. However, these indicators also have shortcomings, mostly due to data being collected under broad HS categories covering a wider range of related products beyond the specific intermediate good of interest rather than being specific to anode graphite materials.280 Four HS-6 subheadings capture the international trade for the three relevant forms of graphite- natural unprocessed (HS 2504.10), intermediate material inputs (HS 2708.10, coal tar pitch, and HS 2713.12 and HS 2713.12, calcined petroleum coke, which are the feedstocks for producing needle coke and artificial graphite), and artificial refined (HS 3801.10) for the trade-based GVC measures. The GVC measures included in this section are the Coverage Ratio, Grubel-Lloyd Index, and Revealed Comparative Advantage.

The Grubel-Lloyd (GL) Index provides country-level information on intra-materials trade. This measure compares absolute net exports of an intermediate good with total trade (sum of exports and imports) of that same good. A higher index value reflects more intra-materials trade. At a value of 1.0 (100 percent), a country exports as much of a good as it imports, an indicator that it may be operating in multiple stages of production. Conversely, if the value is zero, the country either only exports or imports the intermediate good, a reflection of less intra-materials trade. Lower values are likely outcomes for countries involved in anode material processing and Li-ion battery manufacturing.

However, when a country's goods are traded across borders multiple times, some double counting may occur in measures that combine imports and exports for the GVC phases. China's higher GL index in 2019 (table 4), than in the immediate prior (0.4 in 2018) and later (0.3 in 2020) years, reflects increased imports of natural graphite (figure 8b) and calcined petroleum coke (figure 9b). Otherwise, the lower GL index values in 2018 and 2020 are consistent with China's dual characteristics as not only the world's leading supplier (figures 5, 8a-11a) and processor, but also as the leading consumer, along most stages of the anode material GVC, despite sending uncoated spheroidal graphite to Japan or South Korea for the final coating operations. Higher GL indices for Japan, Canada, Germany, and France reflect the greater extent of intra-materials trade along successive stages of the graphite GVC by these countries (figures 8a-11a, 8b-11b). The GL index for the United States, a major processor and trader among most stages of the graphite GVC, would have been higher but for its status as the world's predominant producer of petroleum coke (figure 6) and leading exporter of calcined petroleum coke (figure 9a).

2019 (table 4), than in the immediate prior (0.4 in 2018) and later (0.3 in 2020) years, reflects increased imports of natural graphite (figure 8b) and calcined petroleum coke (figure 9b). Otherwise, the lower GL index values in 2018 and 2020 are consistent with China's dual characteristics as not only the world's leading supplier (figures 5, 8a-11a) and processor, but also as the leading consumer, along most stages of the anode material GVC, despite sending uncoated spheroidal graphite to Japan or South Korea for the final coating operations. Higher GL indices for Japan, Canada, Germany, and France reflect the greater extent of intra-materials trade along successive stages of the graphite GVC by these countries (figures 8a-11a, 8b-11b). The GL index for the United States, a major processor and trader among most stages of the graphite GVC, would have been higher but for its status as the world's predominant producer of petroleum coke (figure 6) and leading exporter of calcined petroleum coke (figure 9a).

spheroidal graphite capable of competing with artificial graphite's energy densities and performance in the battery anode materials market. 283

Although steelmaking is anticipated to remain the largest graphite consuming sector, the batteries sector is considered a driver of future growth. 284 Global graphite consumption by Li-ion batteries is anticipated to grow to just below 447,000 metric tons in 2021 and increase four-fold thereafter by 2030.285 China has developed production capacity at every stage of the battery GVC and is well positioned to capture much of the projected growth in Li-ion battery-related demand for graphite.

China's approach to controlling the global trade flows of graphite and other Li-ion battery materials recognizes that controlling the processing stage is more crucial than just owning the raw material sources. 286 According to a graphite industry source, "There's the potential of {China} stepping up supplies and bringing down prices to drive foreign rivals into a corner, just like they re doing with rare earths." 287

Both to meet anticipated rising demand as automakers develop EVs and to allay customer concerns of potential supply-disruptions, numerous non-Chinese graphite mining and coal tar firms are attempting to become fully integrated producers that also purify and process graphite. Further, many existing non- Chinese firms involved in the processing stage have announced plans to add capacity and new firms have announced plans to enter the processing market. Nevertheless, even with these significant announced investments, the United States may need 20-30 years to establish high volume and robust GVCs outside of China. Finally, opposition on environmental grounds can be anticipated in many developed countries to the establishment of new graphite mines and hydrocarbon and graphite processing facilities to provide the anode materials, which could further delay the development of new GVCs.