Structure of the Electric Vehicle Battery Supply Chain
The battery manufacturing supply chain has three main parts: cell manufacturing, module manufacturing, and pack assembly (figure 1). These three stages can be conducted in the same place, or broken up into two or (theoretically) three locations. For example, the Automotive Energy Supply Corporation (AESC) plant in Sunderland, England, produces battery cells and modules, and assembles packs for the Nissan Leaf.14 However, AESC also sends modules to Spain, where they are put into packs for electric vans. Tesla produces its own modules and packs at both its "Gigafactory," which opened in Nevada in 2017, and at its vehicle assembly plant in Fremont, California. Tesla's battery packs for the Model 3 use cells from the Gigafactory, while cells for the Model S and Model X are produced by Panasonic in Japan.1 5 Pack assembly tends to occur near the vehicle assembly location because of the cost of transporting battery packs, which are larger and heavier than cells or modules (figure 2).
Figure 1: The three stages of electric vehicle battery production

International Trade in Batteries5l
Because of the lithium-ion battery's complex supply chain, international trade data are a complicated puzzle to understand. Lithium-ion batteries for EVs are categorized in an HS 6-digit subheading (8507.60) that includes lithium-ion batteries for all uses, with separate statistical suffixes for batteries for EVs versus all other uses. But different stages of the lithium-ion battery supply chain seem to be imported under both statistical suffixes, as well as an additional HTS 8- digit subheading (8507.90.80). This section explores the available trade data.

By value, China (not including Hong Kong) reported the highest amount of imported lithium-ion batteries from 2013 to 2017, followed by the United States, Hong Kong, and Germany (table 4). During this period, though, Chinese lithium-ion battery imports declined, possibly owing to increased Chinese lithium-ion battery production. Moreover, it is difficult to know what portion of imports under this HS subheading were batteries for EVs versus lithium-ion batteries for some other purpose, with the HTS subheadings don't differentiate on an international level.

China also exported the most lithium-ion batteries (and components) of every country during 2013-17 (table 5). China's increased lithium-ion battery exports also suggest increased Chinese production of lithium-ion batteries, implying that the high volume of its imports may be more cells and modules (components) than packs (finished products).

For U.S.-specific trade data, the picture is somewhat clearer. For imports, the HTSUS breaks out HS 8507.60 into two 10-digit statistical reporting numbers, 8507.60.0010 and 8507.60.0020, to separate lithium-ion batteries for EVs from lithium-ion batteries for all other uses. Since only battery packs are supposed to be classified under 8507.60 as previously discussed, we know that only U.S. imports of EV battery packs should enter under HTS 8507.60.0010. As mentioned above, battery cells and modules enter under HTS 8507.90.8000 (battery parts). Figure 5 reports the leading U.S. import sources for lithium-ion battery components under these three classifications, and the composition of each.

Based on these data, the United States appears to import almost all of its battery parts (some of which are lithium-ion cells and modules) from Japan. It seems to import a high number of lithium-ion battery components not specifically intended for EVs (some of which may be cells and/or modules) from China, South Korea, and Japan, and imports relatively few completed EV battery packs. This supports the table-3 list, which shows that the majority of pack assembly for U.S.-sold EVs occurs in the United States.

As for U.S. exports, separate subheadings for lithium-ion batteries used in EVs do not exist, but in some cases, it appears that the trade flow is EV-related. Tesla likely exports batteries (or modules) to support its EV plant in the Netherlands (opened in 2013), which may be the reason that the Netherlands is the leading destination for U.S. lithium-ion battery exports (figure 6).

Similarly, the Fiat 500e is assembled in Mexico (table 1), so a significant share of exports of lithium-ion batteries to Mexico likely supports that production. For the limited battery parts that the United States does export, it is impossible to know what share of these are lithium-ion cells, and what share are parts of batteries for other uses.

Conclusions
It is possible that some other battery type that packs more energy per pound will be developed in the future, but until then, lithium-ion batteries will be the most important part of an EV. As EVs take an increasing share of motor vehicle sales, the battery supply chain will become increasingly important. Understanding the supply chain can help businesses and governments understand how trade flows and resources will be affected by increased demand for EVs and thus, their inputs.

China and the United States appear to be the largest suppliers of lithium-ion battery cells in the future, with competition from Japan and South Korea.54 Moreover, since cells are more easily imported/exported longer distances, they are likely to continue to be internationally traded. Conversely, due to the higher cost of transporting battery packs, international trade in EV battery packs is likely to remain low compared to trade in battery cells. Vehicle manufacturers'
decisions about where to produce EVs (and in what quantities) are likely to be the primary determinants in lithium-ion battery module and pack production locations.

Due mostly to the lack of more detailed international trade data for lithium-ion batteries, it is challenging to separate out information from components of the battery supply chain. However, based on the authors' estimates, the United States and Japan appear to provide the most value- added to lithium-ion batteries used in EVs sold in the United States. Much of the estimated U.S. value comes from pack assembly. Based on this research, due to China's high level of sales of domestically produced EVs with domestically produced batteries and cells, China likely accounts for the vast majority of the value added from lithium-ion batteries in Chinese EV sales and is likely the world leader in value added for EV batteries.