The economic viability of electric vehicle deployment should be widely discussed, as upgrading the electrical grid only to support electric mobility will result in negative macroeconomic impacts. According to [27], electricity grid upgrade costs will be passed on to electricity consumers, resulting in more expensive bills. Buyers with lower monthly incomes, who are a concern for decision-makers, or should be, will not suffer as much.

The frequency of the keyword “cost analysis” can be observed. This is because many studies analyse economic feasibility to complement the life cycle assessment through a cost analysis of the fuel used or battery components that might reduce the cost of the product. Nonetheless, the life cycle cost was not used as a keyword, so it does not appear in the authors’ keywords. However, despite the small number of studies, the life cycle cost and the levelized fuel production cost were analysed.

In [28], the cost of owning and driving a fuel-cell electric vehicle powered by green hydrogen, that is, hydrogen produced through electrolysis and renewable energies, is analysed. Among the costs analysed was the levelized cost of hydrogen production and its supply chain. The total cost of ownership considered the following: the emissions related to the hydrogen production pathway; the vehicle powertrain, and the emissions related to its production; the taxes and subsidies provided for the purchase and usage of the vehicle; the pattern of using the vehicle, such as charging facilities and sharing of electric mode, as is the case of the plug-in electric vehicle; and, finally, the levelized energy cost per kilometer, fuel/energy cost, capital expenditure, and operational expenditure. However, owning and driving costs have been calculated less frequently. The most recent studies have focused on reducing costs related to fuel production and the components of electric vehicles. The authors of [29] carried out a sensitivity analysis to identify the key factors affecting hydrogen prices. Considering a projection after 2030, the authors concluded that hydrogen demand will increase significantly, and investments in infrastructure will be needed to satisfy it. Besides that, the feedstock price is one of the parameters that affect the hydrogen price.

The “lithium-ion battery” was the keyword used in several studies, especially in studies about chemical components, such as “cobalt” and “lithium”. A life cycle analysis has been carried out to investigate cobalt production, considering the ore grade, the primary production, and the lithium-ion battery recycling [30]. The results showed that cobalt production from its ore must be minimized due to its high projected environmental impact up to 2050. One alternative to reduce the environmental impact of cobalt production is increasing cobalt recycling rates and efficiency, which can reduce the ore mining activities and its consequent impacts [30]. On the other hand, the scarcity and disruption of materials considered critical, such as lithium, cobalt and nickel in the supply chains, may hinder the large-scale production of lithium-ion batteries that are composed mainly of the aforementioned materials and make the 25% share in the electric vehicle market by 2050 unfeasible [31]. When the environment is discussed, considering the whole battery supply chain, the lithium-ion battery will only reduce climate change if suppliers use renewable sources for power generation [32]. However, a supply chain majority powered by renewable energies contributes to the increase in the human toxicity factor, land use, and water consumption [33]. Therefore, in the medium term, a balance of prices, environmental impacts, and human health must be considered. It is important to emphasize that the increase in battery demand will consequently increase the demand for mineral components. This can result in higher prices of cobalt than for nickel and higher nickel prices than for copper [2]. Governments must create subsidies to make the recycling sector more economically feasible. It is critical to know the remaining useful life of the batteries once it is a factor that directly affects the supply chain. This makes is possible to reduce the impact on the management on the demand side [34]. In addition, the search for decarbonization and emission mitigation leads to increased demand in the electricity sector and biofuel production, such as hydrogen.

As shown in the word cloud in Figure 3, the keyword “rare-earth elements” appears with high frequency. These elements have received much attention due to their recent exploration, and each rare-earth element has a specific end use [36]. Therefore, there is an urgent need for further production of these rare-earth elements as a by-product of other commodities, such as bauxite or phosphate, to minimize their scarcity, but technical and economic challenges still need to be overcome.
When analysing the recent studies, it was found that “electric vehicle battery” is a keyword that stands out in several of them. To explore the strengths and weaknesses of this supply chain, [37] carried out a SWOT analysis of the United Kingdom’s electric vehicle battery industry. They suggested that the battery manufacturers should reduce the reliance on sourcing from a single country supplier, in this case, China, and fortify the interaction with other suppliers, such as India, Africa, and the United States, maintaining continuous innovation.
The keyword “supply chain risk” was one of the least used keywords. Recently, the pandemic caused by COVID-19 has impacted several sectors of the industry, with the application of protective measures to reduce transmission, such as lockdowns. It was not different in the electric vehicle sector, which faced interruptions in production and in sales, leading to innovation in online sale channels [38]. To reduce these impacts, [39] realized an investigation about the potential COVID-19 impacts on the electric vehicle supply chain on a global scale and suggested an integrated supply chain model. This model uses a supply chain risk management concept based on the possibility of disruptions occurring in the electric vehicle supply chain due to the coronavirus pandemic.

The COVID-19 pandemic also brought uncertainties in the magnetic elements supply chain, which are components of vehicle electronics equipment, such as neodymium-iron-boron (NdFeB) magnets. To reduce the scarcity of this material, [40] proposed a supply chain and logistics network design based on reverse resilience. The authors considered collection, disassembly and recycling centres. In addition, uncertainty criteria were used to analyse the lithium supply chain. According to [41], the lithium supply chain is highly complex due to the interconnections and interdependencies between its elements. This means that a vehicle needs a lithium battery, but a lithium battery requires lithium carbonate and lithium hydroxide for its production. One of the solutions found by the authors was to produce lithium hydroxide from lithium carbonate, thus reducing the demand for lithium.

Supply chain risks were also applied considering other impacting factors, such as corruption and political instability, in the raw material mining sector for lithium-ion batteries, specifically cobalt, rare-earth elements, and lithium [42]. In addition, these materials can be replaced with similar materials without changing the product’s design. However, specific rare-earth elements still lack investigations since their alternatives are poorly known or less effective.

Another point that deserves attention is the diversity of raw materials, which can contribute to the risk of ruptures in the supply chain. The authors of [43] analysed exactly this point by presenting methods developed to assess supply chain risk in relation to geopolitical factors, the potential for economic scarcity and resource efficiency. According to the results, the methods presented may only be valuable for preliminary assessments of the outside-in impacts, which are the impacts of raw materials on production processes, and the inside-out impacts, which encompass the effects of production processes in the environment. Furthermore, the authors emphasize that critical raw materials should not be neglected, even if they are only used in small quantities.

In addition to analysing the supply chain for the delivery of electric vehicles as a product of the production process, the possibility of supplying batteries for energy storage systems or electronic devices was also considered, for example, when there is no demand for electric vehicles [39]. This makes it possible to reduce the impact on the upstream side of the supply chain. The concepts of upstream and downstream have been analysed in the context of competitiveness. According to the analysis performed by [44], an upstream electric vehicle manufacturer that produces batteries may sell them to a downstream electric vehicle manufacturer that does not produce batteries, depending on the external battery manufacturer. Only if the acquisition cost is reasonable, the downstream manufacturer prefers to order the battery from the upstream manufacturer. To maximize social welfare, the authors also concluded that the upstream manufacturer does not supply batteries to the downstream manufacturer if the acquisition cost from the external supplier is low. On the other hand, the upstream manufacturer will provide batteries to the downstream competitor if the battery acquisition cost is low.
It was observed that the keyword “recycle” was present in many studies. However, to recycle any products, there need to be incentives. The subsidies for recycling batteries, for instance, can be provided to the manufacturer or the consumer, but the subsidies provided to the manufacturing sector provide more significant profit and social welfare than the incentives provided to consumers [45]. This can be explained by the costs involved in managing the battery at the end of its life and forwarding it to the recycling sector. The authors of [46] presented a techno-economic model to compare recycling locations and processes for recycling cost optimization, considering an international battery recycling economy. The authors showed that recycling can be economically feasible and can contribute to mitigating the emissions caused by mining processes of the components needed, for example, and can secure the materials supply chain.
Another possibility to recycle batteries is allocating them to another purpose, such as the distributed energy system sector. The authors of [47] proposed an optimisation to a supply chain using electric vehicle batteries that have reached the end of their lives. This use allows optimal supply chain profits and fairness of profit allocation. Considering profit, strategic alliance between suppliers and manufacturers might effectively optimize the returns in the whole supply chain, and these alliances can be coordinated through different mechanisms, including Nash-bargaining, which means that the manufacturer holds bargaining power α, and the suppliers hold 1−α.

Although recycling and reusing electric vehicle batteries can help reduce raw material consumption and negative environmental impacts, these activities may not bring financial benefits [49]. This analysis presented the concept of a “closed-loop supply chain”, a set of activities responsible for producing, distributing, and delivering the product to customers and collecting it for recovery processes at the end of its life. In this analysis [49], important points about closed-loop supply chains and recycling technologies were discussed. Although more returns reduce raw material demands, the authors concluded that the closed-loop battery supply chain showed lower profit when more batteries were returned, suggesting government’s participation with incentives may increase recycling-related profit. Furthermore, the higher the recycling rate and lower the cost, the higher the profit, indicating that the efficiency of the process and the technology used to recycle need to be optimised.

Profit was analysed separately in a closed-loop supply chain consisting of a manufacturer, which produces new batteries available to the consumer, and a remanufacturer, which collects the end-used battery and recycles it depending on its return quality [50]. This analysis showed that the price of high-quality returned batteries influences the remanufacturing decision more than that of low-quality batteries, and incentives are necessary to promote remanufacturing, as this sector benefits the environment. According to the authors, the manufacturing sector profits more than the remanufacturing sector, making it challenging to propose recycling batteries and their components.

Recycling can be directly linked to various strategies, including the circular economy [51,52,53]. The circular economy promotes the possibility of using materials at their end of life, recovering components that would be discarded to use in new products after dismantling and selecting steps, and it is a broader topic than the closed-loop supply chain. In addition, the circular economy is essential to fortifying supply chain resilience and sustainability because it helps to minimize the mineral components demand, such as cobalt. Although cobalt is not widely used, its independence can overwhelm the demand for other materials, such as nickel [52]. Recycling 4.0 has been used to optimise the circular economy strategies, integrating recycling with Industry 4.0. Thus, the marketplaces operate as a central contact point in which suppliers and customers are linked to combine an optimal recycling system with intelligent robotic systems and automation strategies.

Sustainable supply chain management is a branch of supply chain management that focuses on measures to mitigate sustainability-related risks. Nevertheless, looking at Figure 3, the sustainable supply chain is relatively less focused than the supply chain. Furthermore, supply chain transparency for sustainability has not been studied as much. The transparency between internal processes is an important point because it contributes to improving collaboration throughout the supply chain by optimising the traceability of raw materials, components, and products.

Synthetic gas supply chains, such as that for natural hydrogen gas, were analysed in some studies. The authors in [1] investigated the greenhouse gas emissions of a fuel cell electric vehicle fuelled with hydrogen and an electric vehicle fuelled with synthetic natural gas. Both are produced with carbon dioxide via direct air capture. The results showed that using these synthetic gases is even more efficient than a battery electric vehicle when considering a scenario with curtailment of electricity demand, which can be explained by the longer storability of these fuels.

Plug-in electric vehicles were less analysed in relation to both the supply chain for their production and their use in the logistics sector. The use of electric vehicles in the logistics sector is a challenge due to the size of the trunk, which must be large enough to transport objects for delivery [55]. In addition, charging time must be analysed to balance distribution costs with time efficiency for longer delivery distances. However, if the distance is shorter, time does not interfere since electric vehicles have enough autonomy to go back to the store and recharge the battery. The only concern is the right choice of the vehicle model for delivery [55]. Electric mobility can also be included in a small supply chain. Farmers can use an electric vehicle to carry out logistics for local food markets, and the stronger this partnership, the greater the intention to use the electric vehicle for this purpose due to the short distance and the number of products to be delivered.