Economic theory emphasizes that in well-functioning markets, over the long term, imbalances between supply and demand tend to be self-correcting. In the short to medium term, however, markets and prices can be disrupted and volatile. These availability concerns can cause problems for novel technologies, and evolving regulations in response to these concerns can change the economic landscape. There are examples of disruption in materials supply chains that led to profound change in material use?, delayed technology implementation, or political instability? so foresight is critical to planning, management, and action. Moreover, even over the longer term, this view of a material market ignores environmental externalities, functionality constraints around relative substitutability of a material, and feasibility of alternatives in the near term.

Demand for Co is based on end uses in LIBs, superalloys, hard materials/cutting tools, and catalysts, ° with limited ability to substitute with another element for most applications? LIB uses, concentrated in consumer electronics and EVs, are currently the largest end use of Co (accounting for 50% of global Co demand).® The market for EVs is expected to increase significantly after 2020, as costs for EVs begin to equalize with those for internal combustion engine vehicles. 8,9 While projections of extreme EV growth represent sustainable ideals, there are several challenges associated with large increases in EV demand and implementation. Various risk factors have been well documented in recent publications. Pelegov and Pontes indicate production scalability, cost, policy variation across governments, and EV battery recycling impacts (both environmental and economic) as pressing risks to global EV adoption. 10 Additional studies have focused on supply chain concerns, particularly raw material availability and accessibility, as high-risk factors for global EV adoption in the coming years.

As detailed in various publications, Co scores highly among potential supply chain disruption drivers including geographically concentrated mining and refining, sociopolitical instability and unrest, byproduct production dependence, and cost. 6,9,11 Primary supply of Co is heavily geographically concentrated, both for mining and refining of the mined materials. Current estimates locate approximately 60% of all mined Co production in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC); this value has been estimated to reach upwards of 65% before 2030.12 According to the World Governance Indicators developed by the World Bank Group, the DRC has consistently ranked in the lowest 10 percentile among all countries it investigates in terms of political stability, government effectiveness, rule of law, and control of corruption. 13,14,15 Examples of this include political and social issues in the 1970s and 1990s that led to supply constraints and subsequent extreme price increases, 6,16 Supply is more diverse from a company perspective compared to the geographic perspective, and no company has a production share more than 30% on average. Although China has a small share in terms of direct mining production, it indirectly controls 19-26% of mining production through ownership of mining projects mostly located in the DRC.

Other works suggest that demand may outpace supply. Valero and coauthors conclude that both Ni and Co demand may outpace reserves in the midterm: Ni could experience bottlenecks as early as 2027, and Co demand is likely to exceed production between 2030 and 2050 with EVs the largest focus of future bottlenecks.' Due to the highly concentrated supply chain of Co and the significant increases in demand that are expected from EV battery implementation, market analysts have also stated that the market for Co will likely continue to remain imbalanced. Future supply consists of significant increases in primary, increases in secondary Co from end of life recycling in the mid- to long-term, and increased co substitution, (especially in batteries) in the short term. These scenarios are unlikely due to lack of sufficient recycling infrastructure and economic incentives; in 2018 Co contained in scrap represented an estimated 30% of consumption. Substitution may be a viable option in some sectors, however it can often lead to increased prices and decreased performance.

Given that these values estimate a relative balance between mined supply and refined demand or even supply surplus, our analysis suggests Co price will remain relatively stable. However, our lower and upper bounds on Co demand in 2030 are 160% and 280% of world refinery capacity in 2016, respectively. For this demand to continue to be met, attention should be paid to sustained investments in refined supply of Co as well as investments in secondary recovery. High values of Co recovery and secondary supply from EVs bring supply within reach of demand to 2030. Secondary supply alone is not enough in the short term to meet demand and would be further delayed if second life options become a preferred route. On the supply side, there is also opportunity for increased mining efficiency, which at an upper bound could add another 40 ktonnes of Co. This is estimated by increasing current average recovery for Co-principal to close to 95% and for byproduct mines to 80%.36 The upper bound on 2018-2030 cumulative Co demand represents close to 10% of identified terrestrial resources (1.5% also including sea bed resources, see paragraphs below). The ratio between reserves reported in 2018 and 2030 demand (upper bound) is 16 years (termed the static depletion index), compared with 46 years for those same reserves divided by 2018 production. The sharp downward trend in this index is further indication of potential supply chain pressure.

Another area of future study would explore the longer term supply chain considerations required to meet climate goals; research indicates that global emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) need to be brought down to zero, net of sinks, within the next 50 years.55 This transformation will involve all sectors of the economy and has been the subject of several integrated assessments, which provide insight regarding the extent of the transition involved 56,57 Relevant to this work, such a major transformation will likely have further implications for demand of Co both for transportation and grid applications. Any analysis which predicts decarbonization approach can apply this analysis of battery chemistries shares within market and Co content to explore more detailed demand scenarios. The upper bound assumption for EV adoption by 2030 used in this work aligns with the International Energy Agency (IEA) New Policies scenario. The IEA reports Co EV demand of 350 kt/yr for an EV30@30 Scenario, which reaches 30% market share for EVs by 2030 (EV sales reach 43 million).58 This demand, combined with other sources of demand (even using our low estimate of those sources), would exceed even our upper bound on supply (470 ktonnes demand versus 458 ktonnes supply). Among scenarios recently presented by the United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the transportation sector would increase its share of "lowemission final energy" to 35-65% of the total by 2050 for 1.5 degree limiting scenarios.55 The wide range reflects variety in approaches taken to decarbonize the transportation sector. Another important consideration is that many low-carbon transportation technologies involve increased use of Cu conductive wiring. Increased demand for Cu is likely to create a positive feedback look for Co supply because of their coupled production.