Progressing further through the (as illustrated in Figure 1), following the conversion to the aforementioned intermediate products, are various manufacturing and end-use applications. These include air conditioning and industrial process cooling, thermoplastics, pharmaceuticals (for bipolar and depression), as an alloy in aluminum production to add strength and corrosion resistance. In the manufacture of glass and ceramics, lithium carbonate allows for lower processing temperatures and thus lower energy input. Other uses include steel casting applications and finally in the manufacturing of lithium-ion batteries.

Continuing down the lithium supply chain, Figure 1 also displays the major types of current lithium-ion batteries that have come to dominate the portable electronics, energy storage and EV markets. Key to lithium batteries are the relatively higher energy densities (higher power and lower weight) compared to non-lithium ion battery types. For EVs, higher energy density translates into more power and higher mileage ranges. As shown on Figure 1, at present there are five general types of lithium-ion battery chemistries including lithium cobalt oxide (LCO), lithium manganese oxide (LMO), lithium ferro (or iron) phosphate (LFP), lithium nickel manganese cobalt (NMC), and lithium nickel cobalt aluminum (NCA).3 While some of these common battery types may or may not include cobalt (a topic for a future article), all contain lithium. Actual manufacturing of lithium-ion batteries occurs primarily in China, Japan, and South Korea.

In an attempt to shore up domestic supply chains, on March 31st, the Biden administration announced plans to use the Defense Production Act to ramp up the mining and processing of key minerals used in batteries for renewable energy and electric vehicles.5 Under the order, companies could receive funding for feasibility studies to extract lithium, nickel, cobalt, graphite, and manganese. Two initial concerns arise with this announcement. First, while companies may obtain assistance for the study of potential domestic projects, it does not appear that the U.S. government will help with actual capital expenses associated with building mining operations. Second, as highlighted in this article, the significant risks associated with the lithium supply chain lie in the processing of lithium carbonate and hydroxide intermediate compounds necessary for eventual EV battery manufacture. Sixty percent of this processing occurs in China. The Chinese have been working 10+ years on refining processes to transform lithium containing ores into the exacting and precise materials required by battery manufacturers for eventual use in EVs and other critical electrical equipment used in industry and by consumers.

