We examine the relationship between electric vehicle battery chemistry and supply chain disruption vulnerability for four critical minerals: lithium, cobalt, nickel, and manganese. We compare the nickel manganese cobalt (NMC) and lithium iron phosphate (LFP) cathode chemistries by (1) mapping the supply chains for these four materials, (2) calculating a vulnerability index for each cathode chemistry for various focal countries and (3) using network flow optimization to bound uncertainties. World supply is currently vulnerable to disruptions in China for both chemistries: 80% [71% to 100%] of NMC cathodes and 92% [90% to 93%] of LFP cathodes include minerals that pass through China. NMC has additional risks due to concentrations of nickel, cobalt, and manganese in other countries. The combined vulnerability of multiple supply chain stages is substantially larger than at individual steps alone. Our results suggest that reducing risk requires addressing vulnerabilities across the entire battery supply chain.

To the extent that battery supply chains rely on one or a few countries for specific process steps, many governments have grown concerned about vulnerability to supply disruptions and some have enacted policies to incentivize domestic production. Recent or announced legislation in the US6,7, Europe8, and elsewhere9 requires minimum percentages of domestic manufacturing or sourcing from allies (such as free-trade agreement countries in the US context) to qualify for incentives or avoid fines or to meet regulations on carbon footprint and responsible sourcing. As a result, measurements of whole-supply chain vulnerabilities are required to better help understand economic, sustainability, and national security risks. Such measurements may help policymakers evaluate incentives and promulgate regulations on the basis of specific supply chain interventions, such as to reduce such risks, promote domestic production, or internalize economic benefits.

We examine the impact of electric vehicle battery design choices on the vulnerability of battery material supply chains. We first describe a static distribution of the supply chains, accounting for trade and production of all materials related to the four primary critical battery minerals used in battery cathodes (lithium, cobalt, nickel, and manganese). We then measure a vulnerability index for a country (or combination of countries) as the total percentage of the end product (in this case, battery cathode material) produced with materials that are either manufactured in or traded from that country, at any step of the supply chain, while accounting for uncertainty due to sourcing of materials at each step and to missing trade data. Our analysis focuses on LFP (lithium iron phosphate) and NMC (lithium nickel manganese cobalt) as they have the minimum (1) and maximum (4) number of critical minerals covered in this assessment.

We describe the global supply chains for lithium in Fig. 2 and for cobalt, nickel and manganese in Fig. 3., considering the known demand for various lithium ion battery cathode materials. From left to right, each figure shows the portion of global material supply in each country for raw material mining and extraction, raw material trade, refining and processing, refined material trade, and cathode production, which includes trade of scrap or recovered materials that may be involved in the battery material supply chain. For each section labeled as trade (i.e. flows within each rectangular boundary), the flows are between countries, and sections labeled as processing (i.e. flows crossing the rectangular boundaries) are wholly within the country. Boxes that are bisected by the rectangular boundaries could be involved in either trade or production, but are uncertain. We note that not all mined or refined materials are used for battery cathodes. These diagrams map the countries and trade flows that are explicitly involved in these battery material supply chains, as described by the literature. 

For NMC, 57% of cathode production takes place in China, and South Korea and Japan make up the remaining 43%, suggesting a vulnerability index of at least 57%. We estimate that 50% [0% to 100%] of refined Li imports to South Korea and Japan are refined in China, increasing the vulnerability index by +21 [+0 to +43] percentage points to a total of 78% [57% to 100%] of cathode material production involving lithium and China, depending on which South Korean and Japanese imports are used for NMC cathode production. Assigning indirect trade and missing data to China does not change this range (i.e. in this case, the missing and indirect trade has no effect), because the index cannot increase beyond 100%. Furthermore, though it is similarly not noted on the figure, we note that even if all cathode production were moved out of China, an estimated 68% of NMC cathode material would use Li inputs produced or traded from China in the proportional case. Example solutions for the other NMC materials, similar to Fig. 4, are in Supplementary Text S4-1.