This paper studies a three-period electric vehicle battery recycle and reuse closed-loop supply chain consisting of a battery manufacturer and a remanufacturer. Differing from other products and existing research, used electric vehicle batteries can be instantly reused for other purposes before recycling, such as energy storage. In order to optimize total profits in the whole supply chain in different batteries period of use, this paper develops the optimal pricing strategy between manufacturer and remanufacturer, discusses the relationships between return yield, sorting rate, recycling rate in order to optimize total profit in different period. The result suggests that, comparing with new battery manufacturing, battery recycling and reusing would contribute to reduce raw material consumption hence reduce environmental impact, but may not gain financial benefits. It also notes that although the close-loop supply chain is nonlinearly complicated, some relationships between parameters can be treated as linear or quadratic.

We proposed a three period EV battery closed-loop supply chain to describe the return, reuse and recycle remanufacturing process. Differing from other product, EV battery should be disassembled from the vehicle when its capacity falls to 70% ~ 80%. But it can be reused for other purposes. In period 1, all batteries are made from raw materials. In period 2, some used batteries are returned and they are sorted to high-quality and low-quality used batteries while in this period, some batteries are selected for reusing. And in period 3, after reusing, used battery has to be recycled. The Nash equilibrium between (re)manufacturers in period 2 and period 3 are and the optimal (re)manufacturing quantities and acquisition prices are derived. We then analysed the relationships between used battery return yield 0, high-quality sorting rate of used battery a, reusable sorting rate B, recycling rate (2, Xy and 24), (re-)manufacturing costs (C, Cn and C,) and total optimal profit in both period 2 and period 3 (I, and I). As complexity of the CLSC model, these relationships are difficult to describe. Through the normalization process, costs and prices are distributed into [0,1], by using the grid search method, portfolio of all parameter values are traversed.

Through discussion, the findings can be summarised as: (1) The sorting rate has linear relationship with optimal profit. This conclusion simplifies the difficulties of enterprise managers to analyse the EV battery supply chain; (2) In the EV battery CLSC, the more return batteries, the less profit. This finding also explains why recycling is not widely accepted by manufacturers even though more returns will reduce the consumption of natural resources. Therefore, government should try to take some incentives to increase the economic benefits of recycling; (3) The more reusable batteries, the more profit in period 2. So, reusable returns are encouraged. Hence, EV service providers should encourage customers to use the battery carefully; (4) The higher recycling rate and the lower recycling processing cost, the higher profit. This requires increasing efficiency and technological innovation in recycling operations; (5) The relationship between high-quality return yield and profit is uncertain but it is still encouraged in order to increase the sorting rate for the reusable batteries. Therefore, to conclude, this research develops a unique EV battery CLSC model which reflects the special characteristics of EV battery. All these findings have answered the research questions and will help EV battery manufacturers and remanufacturers make better decision in cooperation. And to sustain recycling business, governments support is vitally important to keep the business going.