The production of battery materials has been identified as the main contributor to the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of lithium-ion batteries for automotive applications. Graphite manufacturing is characterized by energy intense production processes (including extraction), mainly being operated in China with low energy prices and a relatively high GHG emission intensity of electricity generation.

Industrial scale primary data related to the production of battery materials lacks transparency and remains scarce in general. In particular, life cycle inventory datasets related to the extraction, refining and coating of graphite as anode material for lithium-ion batteries are incomplete, out of date and hardly representative for today's battery applications. Nevertheless, primary life cycle inventory data of battery materials like graphite, produced on an industrial scale are crucial for a robust evaluation of batteries for electric vehicles, material sourcing and development of robust decarbonization strategies.

This paper addresses this issue by first providing a comprehensive overview of the existing graphite datasets and their original sources, and outlining the reasons for wide variations of reported environmental impact results. Furthermore, this paper aims at closing existing data gaps by providing transparent primary data from a Chinese graphite producer from 2019 and assessing the environmental impacts (cradle-to-gate) in form of a life cycle assessment (LCA) for a vertically integrated graphite production. The life cycle inventory covers material, water, energy flows and direct emissions associated with the production of natural graphite anode material for an automotive battery application and associated transport activities along the supply chain. The results of the LCA show that the production of 1000 kg of natural graphite anode material has a global warming potential (GWP) of approximately 9616 kg CO2eq. The subsequent uncertainty analysis in the form of a Monte-Carlo-Analysis with 10000 runs reveals that the 95% confidence interval is in the range between 9297 and 9940 kg CO2eq. This value is more than four times higher than the reported GWP of battery-grade graphite in the ecoinvent database version 3.7.1.

The quality of the inventory data is a key element to reliable and representative LCA results. In that sense, the limited amount of primary LCI data for graphite within reviewed studies is remarkable. It shows that numerous studies use or recompile LCI from other works, often in rather non-transparent ways.

The literature summary shows that current LCA publications mainly rely on outdated and not representative graphite datasets from a technological point of view. Often, only partial steps of the entire graphite manufacturing process are considered or approximated, resulting in technological inaccuracies and underestimating emissions. Furthermore, the data network shows that there is a lack of transparent primary data from industrialized anode graphite manufacturers. As a consequence, the emissions associated with the production of one of the core materials of electric mobility, graphite, could be incorrectly estimated leading to partially incorrect results in current LCA studies of batteries.

The limited amount of studies assessing the complete supply chain of battery-grade graphite in detail indicates a demand for primary LCI data from graphite industry. New primary data for graphite would help make future battery LCA studies even more robust and trustworthy. The improved data situation could ensure that potential CO2 reduction measures are identified more quickly, that more efficient decarbonization measures are selected, that location decisions for materials are made, and that greener supply chain management can be established.

According to researchers and market trends, demand for natural graphite as anode material for batteries will continue to rise significantly. Although new materials such as silicon are gradually being added as supplements, it is assumed that graphite will continue to dominate the market until 2030. Our analysis initially showed that the current data on the environmental impact of graphite is still very poor. Often very outdated and not representative data from databases are used to conduct LCA of batteries. The problem is that a large part of the production steps of graphite are not taken into account, which means that environmental impacts in the past have been incorrectly estimated. Besides the goal to re-evaluate the environmental impacts of graphite production, we aimed at releasing a transparent graphite LCI that improves data quality and availability. Therefore, we provided a comprehensive and transparent overview of the material and energy data as well as the direct emissions linked to graphite anode production. The data used in our study is an important asset and represents detailed primary data from a vertically integrated Chinese graphite anode manufacturer and battery material supplier for the year 2019. These data can serve as a reference for future studies. Our LCA results provide a detailed overview of the largest contributing processes to the environmental impacts of the production and give clear recommendations for further improvements. Our results show that the carbon footprint of natural graphite is more than four times higher than the value reported in ecoinvent version 3.7.1. The main reason for the high CO2 emissions is the energy-intensive coating step, which has been neglected or underestimated in many previous publications. Our study helps to better estimate the emissions generated in the supply chain associated with the graphite production. In the future, this will enable research and industry to develop target-oriented decarbonization measures and process improvements in order to produce cleaner batteries.