The coronavirus pandemic has turbocharged the lithium-ion-battery-to-electric-vehicle (EV) supply chain and accentuated a global battery 'arms race' between China, the United States, and Europe. The build-out of this supply chain is the blueprint for the 21st century automotive and energy storage industries, and since the onset of the pandemic in March 2020, lithium-ion battery and EV plans have accelerated. Data from Benchmark Mineral Intelligence shows that the number of individual battery megafactories, also referred to as gigafactories, in the pipeline over the next 10 years increased from 118 in 2019 to 181 in 2020. (For context, only four were being planned in 2015). Of the 181, 136 are based in China, 10 in the US, and 16 in continental Europe. As I testified to the US Senate Committee for Energy and Natural Resources in 2019: We are in the midst of a global battery arms race in which the US is presently a bystander'.

Battery megafactories are super-sized producers of lithium-ion battery cells, which will be the platform technology for all EVs, and China has taken the initiative to build battery capacity at speed and scale. Of the 181 battery megafactories in various stages of planning and construction, 88 are currently active, making cells for EVs. While there may be a 'global battery arms race', the furore has a real and tangible bedrock of battery production.

The quality of the raw materials, together with the quality of the cathode and anode manufacturing, will determine the quality of the lithium-ion battery cell and with it the performance of the EV that contains the battery. Automakers' futures will ultimately rely on how well high-quality cathode and anode making scales, an expansion that needs to go hand in hand with the previous two steps.

While lithium-ion battery making is expanding, there is a wide variety of qualities, not all of which can be used in all EVs. Highspecification EVs made by western auto manufacturers outside of China will require Tier 1 quality cells-presently made by CATL, Tesla-Panasonic, Samsung SDI, LG Chem SK Innovation, and Envision AESC-which are expected to account for 35 per cent of total output in 2030.

Traditional automakers are fast evolving into battery pack manufacturers and software engineers. An increasingly close relationship between the battery cell makers and automakers is also evolving—for example, with VW Group teaming up with Northvolt, and General Motors and LG Chem jointly creating a battery plant in Ohio. Future success in the automotive industry will not involve dominating an existing and scaled supply chain, but understanding the criticality of asset ownership along the new supply chain as this industry scales over the next 20 years.

Automotive decision makers need to understand that the lithium-ion battery and EV supply chain needs to be built from scratch and scaled to a blueprint over the next decade. Those most active in investing in and owning assets and controlling the intellectual property along the supply chain will be in the most dominant position a decade from now. True scale, akin to what traditional auto manufacturing is used to, will arrive in the 2030s.

Automakers who quickly understand the importance of these linked steps in the battery supply chain to the quality and cost of their EVs will be the most successful at navigating the next decade. For governments, the shifts in the economics of the supply chain outlined in this article provide opportunities to create jobs, garner influence over a strategic industry, and establish new trading relationships, particularly relevant as Europe and the United States, under a Biden presidency, will seek to reduce reliance on China as a single point in the supply chain. Those who do not see the importance of the lithium-ion battery will have no meaningful future.