Today, the RLB supply chain is dominated by LIB. The LIBsupply chain is in three key sectors: portable microelectronics and tools, powertrains for transportation and utility-grid energy storage. In 2020, it is estimated that the global LIB market will reach a 35-billion-dollar mark with billions of cells used in the three sectors [8]. In anticipation of a rapid growth in electric vehicles and battery energy storage systems, the market could double by 2025. The demand for the sheer number of batteries certainly poses a pressure on the critical materials supply side. For example, cobalt (Co) and nickel (Ni) are key materials in RLB for consumer and vehicle applications. Their reserve and production are concentrated in a few countries like Republic of Congo and China, raising concerns over availability and costs. Reducing Co use in the positive electrode has been an effort for research to seek alternatives [9]-[11]. Recovery and recycle of Co in the battery waste stream is also actively pursued by the industry. Alleviating the Ni use has not been discussed much in the research community. Shifting to non-transition metal oxide-based chemistry, e.g., Li-S, underscores the trend. Li supply and reserve are being monitored as an emerging issue. Maintaining an affordable supply and recovering Li should be considered in the supply chain. The recycling and reuse of critical materials have been reviewed in a few very recent
articles, indicating the importance of this subject matter 

In the pursuit of newer design and chemistry, we oftenface challenges in durability, reliability, and safety. In such a pursuit, pushing material's limit in performance and function- ality shall face stringent requirements on accurate and precise control of a material's properties. It is important to realize that LIB/ RLB is a very complicated electrochemical system in which chemical, thermal, mechanical, and electrical energies and fields need to be balanced at any point in time across the entire dimensions. More importantly, the force-phase fields and gradients from the four energies are often coupled and such coupling is not easy to decouple using an experimental control. If there is a localized imbalance in any form of the energy or force, the consequence will affect the performance of LIB/RLB and impact durability, reliability, and safety. It is known that a large part of the failures with LIB/RLB are originated from localized events that trigger unintended consequences. Localized event is difficult to detect, especially in the early stage of life. Therefore, building FMEA-based diagnosis and prognosis capability for RLB operation and the knowledge base for the entire supply chain could be vital to mitigate the risks.

Abstract—Rechargeable lithium batteries (RLB), including Lithium-ion batteries (LIB), are accelerating the electrificationof transportation and grid energy storage. This transformation of the transportation and energy sector could bring more cleanenergy into our energy security. The RLB technology is growing rapidly in these sectors due to substantial cost reduction and for mobility needs. Yet, the durability, reliability, and safety issues of RLB remain as concerns due to the nature of high energy content in RLB. Concern of limited resource of the ritical materials to sustain the RLB use also escalates. Reuse and recycling of RLB to extend the useful life and recover the critical materials become important. Here, we provide a critical review of these topics to give a timely assessment of the status and gap of the RLB technologies and their supply chain. A key concept to use a quantitative failure mode and effect analysis is proposed to help advance RLB design, development, manufacturing and deployment. The approach can be a viable method to enable physical principle-based technology assessment, failure identification, quantification, and verification of reliability and safety issues in the RLB supply chain.