Regarding the informality of the recycling network, EV manufacturers with blockchain technology are more competitive than informal third-party EV battery recyclers. In terms of service user identification, compared with informal third-party EV battery recyclers, EV manufacturers can grasp more battery usage information and accurately identify customers who need to recycle or reuse batteries by using blockchain. In terms of security, EV manufacturers monitor battery safety performance through blockchain at all times to ensure safety. As shown above, driven by economic benefits, informal third-party EV battery recyclers cannot exit the market. Cooperation between competitors enables the entire supply chain to achieve synergy and improve innovation performance (Zheng et al., 2021). The combined benefits of high recycling rate of the informal third-party EV battery recyclers and the environmental protection and technical advantages of the EV manufacturers can be achieved by the cooperation of these competitors. In fact, in other industries, such as the e-waste recycling industry, the informal recycling sector has been considered to be included in the circular economy system (Tong et al., 2018). It is common for different enterprises to cooperate in collecting and disposing of used batteries. For example, Toyota works with Tesla to collect and recycle car batteries, refurbish them, or disassemble them so that their materials can be used to make new batteries.

In the three stages of the EV battery recycling industry, the EV manufacturer may or may not apply blockchain technology. The parameter settings were the same as those in the initial stage, as described in Section 6.1. The impacts of different subsidy and penalty values on the proportion of adopting blockchain in the initial stage are shown in Figure 9.

As shown in Figure 9, over time, the EV manufacturer gradually prefers not to apply blockchain, which confirms equilibrium point Es(1,0,0). This indicates that, in the early stage of the EV battery recycling industry, the EV manufacturer is unaware of the advantages of adopting blockchain; thus, it does not apply blockchain under the subsidy and penalty policy. In addition, the low subsidy, the penalty and their reduction rates will accelerate the EV manufacturer's strategy to refuse to apply blockchain. In other words, with a low subsidy (subsidy reduction rate) or penalty (penalty reduction rate), the EV manufacturer will decide not to apply blockchain in a short time. It can also be found that a high subsidy (subsidy reduction rate) and penalty (penalty reduction rate) correspondingly delay the time taken for the EV manufacturer to decide on rejecting the blockchain.

This study constructs a smart EV battery reverse supply chain consisting of an EV manufacturer and a third-party EV battery recycler under government supervision.

The relationship between the behavioural decisions of the three members was analysed and discussed. The primary conclusions are as follows.

The probability of the EV manufacturer choosing the blockchain adoption strategy exceeds (below) the threshold, and the government prefers negative (positive) supervision. High penalties (high subsidies) increase (reduce) the probability of the government's PS. When the probability of the government actively supervising the used EV battery recycling industry is high, the EV manufacturer tends to adopt blockchain technology. The CR strategy of the third-party EV battery recycler is the optimal choice when the government tends to actively regulate.

When the penalty, cost of applying blockchain and cooperation strategy are high, the government implements PS, while the other two members do not adopt blockchain and cooperation strategies in the initial stage. If the revenue from the application of blockchain technology by the EV manufacturer and the cooperation strategy adopted by the third-party EV battery recycler are much higher than their costs and the penalty is high, the three members will adopt blockchain, cooperation and PS strategies, respectively, in the intermediate stage. When the revenue and subsidy are high enough, the government abandons supervision, and the EV manufacturer and third-party EV battery recycler will consider adopting blockchain and cooperation strategies in the mature stage.

According to numerical analysis, on the smart reverse supply chain integrated by blockchain technology, a low subsidy (subsidy reduction rate) or high penalty (penalty reduction rate) accelerates the speed of the government's positive regulation in the initial and intermediate stages. A low subsidy (subsidy reduction rate) and penalty (penalty reduction rate) will accelerate the EV manufacturer's decision to refuse to apply blockchain at the initial stage. The EV manufacturer decides to apply blockchain in the mature stage. In the middle stage, the lower the subsidy (subsidy/penalty reduction rate) or the higher the penalty, the faster the third-party EV battery recyclers will reach a stable strategy, that is, adopt a CR strategy. If the EV manufacturer's revenue (cost) from applying blockchain technology is lower (higher), the EV manufacturer is more reluctant to apply blockchain in the intermediate and mature stages.