Executive summary
Battery technology has emerged as a crucial element in realizing the clean energy transition and reducing the energy sector's dependence on fossil fuels. Governments worldwide are recognizing the importance of energy storage and are investing significant sums in relevant industries to enable the widespread adoption of renewable energy sources and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. However, implementation of complete decarbonization in all sectors presents a challenge that will likely boost the demand for batteries dramatically in the short term. This could result in shortages of some battery materials in the coming years, particularly cobalt and lithium, which are two critical components used in lithium-ion batteries (LIB), the most widely used type of batteries in electric vehicles and energy storage systems.

This report analyzes the risk assessment of cobalt and lithium, sis (MFA) method in 2019 as this is the latest year with avai COVID-19 pandemic. The entire value chains of both cobalt an tion to waste management at the global level, are taken into scenarios for the supply and demand of cobalt and lithium in ye various sources to predict the risk for supply distortions with tim the progress of emerging battery technologies and their potential

The results of this report show that many new advanced battery technologies are under development worldwide, such as solid-state batteries, sodium-ion batteries, lithium-sulphur batteries, lithium-air batteries. However, none of these technologies are expected to be adopted by the market at an important scale before 2030. Lithium-ion batteries will still be the dominant technology in use during the next decade. Lithium as a crucial constituent cannot be substituted by 2030, whereas cathode materials with less or no cobalt are expected to be the new tendency.

Cobalt and lithium occur in many different minerals and geological environments found in many parts of the world. Large geological resources exist for both lithium and cobalt with estimated resources of 63 million tons and 25 million tons, respectively. The geological reserves, the part of geological resources that can be economically extracted, was estimated by USGS to be 17 million tons for lithium and 6.5 million tons for cobalt. In comparison the global production of lithium and cobalt from mining in 2019 was approximately 88,000 tons and 144,000 tons, respectively. Even with considerable growth in demand, abundant resources exit globally but the current reserves are highly concentrated in a few countries, with cobalt primarily found in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and lithium in South American countries as well as Australia.

