Due to global warming and fast depletion of fossil fuels, the option of battery-operated electric vehicles (EVs) has emerged as one of the most popular alternatives for sustainable transport. In the present study, India is considered as a case country to explore the challenges in sustainable supply chain of electric vehicle batteries. India, being the second most populated country after China and having limited reserves of fossil fuels, has great potential to excel in electric vehicle supply chains. In addition, growth of electric vehicle markets in India is in the emerging phase. With increasing demand for EVs, the industry is facing many challenges for sustainable supply chain of electric vehicle batteries. The lithium-ion battery is a major component of electric vehicles. Many challenges for sustainability of electric vehicle battery supply chains have been extracted through literature review and discussions with industry experts. These challenges may be categorized as operational, technological, economic, environmental and social. Delphi technique is utilized to finalize major challenges for analysis. For further prioritization of these challenges, Best-Worst Method (BWM) is used. Finally, findings of the BWM are validated through an empirical study by collecting responses from 87 respondents. It is observed that ineffective recycling and reuse of batteries, disposal of batteries, and insufficient charging infrastructure are the three most important challenges in EV battery supply chain in India. The findings may be equally relevant in many developing countries having similar technological and infrastructure constraints. It will help policymakers in developing strategies for sustainable transport systems in developing countries.

EV batteries are composed of many toxic materials such as lead, cadmium, and nickel. Disposal of such materials defeats the purpose of environmentally sustainable EVs. Also, the safe disposal of wastes of lithium and cobalt involves large costs (Jungst, 2001). As per the estimates, approximately 6500 tons of lithium, 20,000 tons of aluminium, 26,400 tons of copper, and 40,800 tons of manganese and other materials would be contained in the LIB waste stream by 2025, which is much less lucrative than recycling (Xu et al., 2017). In many countries, disposal of automotive batteries in landfills and via incineration is completely banned (Gu et al., 2018). Incineration is a thermo-decomposition process where the components present in the waste stream are ionized into harmless elements at a higher temperature in the presence of oxygen. It is applied to recover Li and separate the scrap materials from cathode of LIB. But it generates high amount of CO and CO2 compared to pyrolysis, therefore, pyrolysis is considered a greener process (Lombardo et al., 2021). Pyrolysis is thermal decomposition of materials at elevated temperatures in an inert atmosphere. It involves change in chemical composition of the scrap material. The pyrolysis process may be used under vacuum conditions. Hence, the disposal of batteries poses a significant challenge towards EV battery disposal (Ghadimi et al., 2019). As the electricity used for recharging the batteries is mainly produced by non-renewable sources of energy such as coal and gas, which merely transfer GHG emissions from transportation to energy sector. Therefore, many people are skeptical about EVs’ eco-friendly performance (van den Hoed, 2005)

Currently, recycling infrastructure is very limited for recovery of metals like lithium and cobalt. Despite projections that millions of EVs will hit the road in the next decade, the recycling rate of EOL LIB is very low (Zeng et al., 2014; Zhan et al., 2018). Recycling status of China is less than 10% (Gu et al., 2017) and Belgium accumulates approximately 24% of LIB from homes and 10–13.5% ending up in landfills (Lizin et al., 2017).

Disposal of EOL batteries is not a wise step as the spent LIB can explode or leak to endanger human health and environment. The cross-contamination between lead-acid and lithium-ion batteries may exist which may pose a significant risk. These days, very few companies such as Retrieve Technologies (California) and Umicore (Belgium) are involved in EV battery recycling due to low quantity of spent lithium-ion which reduces the economic viability of the process (Murphy, 2017; Qiao et al., 2017). Many authors have suggested repurposing the batteries in the power grid to store energy to meet excess demand during peak hours (Reinhardt et al., 2019). According to Ahmadi et al. (2014), the life of LIB can be extended by reusing the discarded EV batteries in grid storage for a utility application.

There may be primary and secondary recycling of LIB. Primary recycling is concerned with reuse of the product without changing or altering the product, such as repurposing LIB in solar or wind power stations to store the electricity already generated. It is simply to reuse it. Secondary recycling is concerned with mechanically cutting/ altering the product in some way to use it in another way. LIB may be secondary recycled to be used for some other purposes or to recover some useful components from it.

The demand for EVs has been increasing due to the requirement of clean energy and low running cost. For the purchase of an electric vehicle, the government is providing subsidies to the users. This increase in the adoption of EVs is leading to a significant increase in the demand for batteries also. Increased use of batteries may lead to different kinds of operational, economic, and environmental challenges. Government and policymakers are facing herculean tasks in managing operations for sustainable supply chains of EV batteries. In this study, after a comprehensive literature review and discussions with experts, we have identified 17 key challenges for sustainability in the supply chain of EV batteries. It is observed that recycling and reuse of EV batteries, disposal of batteries, and insufficient infrastructure for charging are the three most important challenges in sustainable supply chain of EV batteries. Although the study is done in context to developing countries like India, findings are equally relevant in context to many developing countries having similar technological and infrastructure constraints. For example, availability of the charging stations in developing countries is a prominent challenge. Overloading on the grid during peak hours and shifting from conventional power generation to renewable sources of energy are other crucial challenges. As a future scope, a similar study may be conducted in context to other countries also for comparative analysis. Researchers may also work to find solutions for major barriers identified in this study. Findings may be further validated with an empirical study based on a bigger sample size.