The supply chain structure is assumed as follows: for ZincPower, there are two sales channels of zinc-nickel batteries: one is traditional retail sales channel, and the other is renting and selling simultaneously. ZincPower and downstream retailers compose a Stackelberg game in which the upstream company ZincPower is the leader. We also assume that the consumers strategically choose channels according to their own utility. The supply chain structure is shown in Figure 7.

The performance of evolutionary games in nonlinear dynamic systems in supply chain management is extremely prone to complex dynamics such as chaos. The existing literature summarizes and elaborates on the complex behaviors in the supply chain in detail. Waltman et al. [22] studied the evolution model of price competition among spatially distributed enterprises. Based on the theory of bounded rationality, Yassen and Elsadany [23] studied a Cournot duopoly game and found that if one of the companies uses delayed bounded rationality, it will be easier to reach the Nash equilibrium. Based on a two-stage delay game model, Ma and Si [24] analyzed the stability of the system related to delay and weight. The article also uses state variable feedback and parameter change methods to control the chaotic state of the system. Elsadany et al. [25] established a dynamic game system with four different companies and believed that the application of delayed feedback control methods can control the chaos of the system. Shi et al. [26] also established a dynamic duopoly game model and showed images of bifurcation and chaos in the system. Tramontana and Elsadany [27] used random demand theory to establish and analyze a three-oligarch model. The analysis results show that the dynamic characteristics of the system accompanied by the stochastic equation may be periodic, quasiperiodic, or chaotic. Li and Ma [28] studied the price decisions of dual-channel retailers between online channel and traditional channel and used the bifurcation theory of dynamic systems to analyze the impact of delayed decision-making on the stability and complexity of the entire system. Xie et al. [29] analyzed the optimal subsidy strategy offered to a vaccine supply chain. The results show that for a higher innovation effort, the production-based subsidy rate is better off if there is a low innovation cost coefficient. Lou and Ma [3()] investigated the complexity of sales effort and carbon emission reduction effort in a Bertrand household appliance supply chain. The finding implies that the adjustments of price will affect the supply chain stability and profits. Xie et al. [31] considered a supply chain involving two manufacturers and made some managerial suggestions to the manufacturers for keeping the system stable. Puu [32] summarized the chaotic duopoly. The self-control feedback continuous control of chaos is studied. Zhang and Yu [33] established Hotelling's model of bounded rationality to analyze the complexity of dynamic economic systems. Gao and Ma [34] studied the complex dynamic behavior of the financial system. In addition to macroscopic perspective, there are also microscopic dynamic studies. Ma and Ren [35] thoroughly demonstrated the Hopf bifurcation condition in the fractional-order system model by combining the ISLM model and the fractional-order calculus theory. Ma and Xie [36] considered the profits and stability through the supply chain system under policy intervention. Most of the existing literature studies focus on the short-, medium-, and long-term game strategies of J. Some studies also analyze the dynamic characteristics of the the supply chain [ 37-39 dynamic game model of the dual channel supply chain system in the long-term game [40 —42], such as bifurcation, initial value sensitivity, and irreversible endomorphism. Market turbulence and instability will not only affect the stability of the economic system but also affect the long-term profits and game strategies of different enterprises [ 40, 43, 4 4]. Xu and Ma [45] studied a nonlinear dynamic system composed of solar photovoltaic supply chain to study the impact of long-term operation strategy, equilibrium stability, and conservative and radical strategies on the system. Bao and Ma [46] studied the short- term and long-term repeated game behavior of two parallel supply chains producing electric vehicles and fuel vehicles. After considering three game models (noncooperation, cooperation, and cost sharing contract), the dynamic behavior of two parallel supply chains in long-term repeated game is analyzed. Zhang and Sarvary [47] studied the complex dynamic behavior of the differentiation with user-generated system, and the research results have good theoretical value.

At present, there are many enterprises producing zinc-nickel batteries in China, while two to three enterprises are of large scale and high output, namely, CHILWEE Power Supply Co., Ltd., ZincPower (Tianjin) New Energy Co., Ltd., and Chaoli (Henan) New Energy Co., Ltd. Taken these into consideration, the domestic zinc-nickel battery market is an oligopoly market. In the following chapters, we will carry out supply chain modeling and simulation of this market, so as to analyze and study the sales situation of zinc-nickel battery.