The batteries in electric vehicles can account for one-third of their production greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions; thus, it is important to understand how these batteries' environmental performance is affected by both the battery's chemistry and production location. In this study, we examined how transitioning to higher‑nickel, lower-cobalt, and high-performance automotive lithium nickel manganese cobalt oxide (NMC) lithium-ion batteries (LIBs) from the base NMC111 would influence the environmental impacts of LIB production. Transitioning from NMC111 cathodes to cathodes with higher nickel and lower cobalt contents results in a potential increase in the energy density (i.e., increased driving range) of the batteries and is thus favored in the industry. This study utilized the Greenhouse gases, Regulated Emissions, and Energy use in Technology (GREET) life-cycle assessment model to conduct the environmental analysis by focusing on the differences among global regions with respect to production conditions (electricity grid, mineral extraction methods, etc.) and examining them on the basis of a set of scenarios for current production conditions to better understand how regional supply-chain variations impact environmental performance. The environmental impact of the transition relative to the GREET baseline conditions was such that the GHG emission levels for NMC532, NMC622, and NMC811 showed reductions of 0.3%, 5.3%, and 7.5%, respectively, relative to NMC111, while the SOx emission levels increased significantly—by 130%, 130%, and 142%, respectively—relative to NMC111. These increases in the SOx emissions levels were correlated with increasing nickel content and were due to the production pathway of the nickel precursor. Through further scenario analysis, we showed that lower SOx emission levels could be attained when the nickel precursor was produced exclusively from mixed hydroxide precipitate (MHP) instead of Class I nickel—although this change resulted in higher GHG emission levels with the current MHP supply chain. Regional variability of the electricity grid profiles also influenced the environmental impacts of LIB production. The use of hydro-powered electricity resulted in reduced GHG emissions levels; however, water consumption levels increased compared to the baseline conditions. Among other scenarios, we also investigated the best- and worst-case-scenario supply chains based on GHG emission levels. In this case, the best-case scenario is the scenario with the lowest GHG emissions, while the worst has the highest. For the NMC811 LIB, the GREET baseline, currently dominant, and worst-case-scenario supply chains showed GHG emission levels of 121%, 173%, and 347%, respectively, relative to the best-case-scenario supply chain. This study highlights the sensitivity of an LIB's life-cycle environmental performance to its supply chain, thereby suggesting a path toward improving the battery's environmental performance, namely, supply-chain decarbonization.

The projected increase in EV sales and adoption will also increase battery manufacturing capacity. Melin et al. indicate that, globally, ~27 GWh of LIBs were placed on the market in 2009, increasing to 218 GWh in 2019, and expected to reach 2.5 TWh by 2030 [1]. Global battery manufacturing capacity is projected to increase from 40 GWh in 2014 to 2.2 TWh by 2029 [10,11]. China currently dominates battery manufacturing capacity and is projected to continue dominating it through 2029 [8,11]. However, countries in Europe and other parts of Asia have also announced investments in the pipeline for battery manufacturing [8,11]. In Europe, a total production capacity of 240 GWh is projected to be established by the end of the decade [12]. With the significant projected increase in global LIB manufacturing capacity, the global LIB supply chain is likely to become more dynamic and geographically diverse. Understanding the effect of such changes on the environmental impacts of LIB production is therefore important for building a sustainable LIB supply chain. This study uses life-cycle assessment (LCA) to compare the environmental impacts of NMC111, NMC532, NMC622, and NMC811 LIBs across different regions. While the development and updating of the LIB—especially for automotive purposes—have been very rapid, this study examines the transition to higher‑nickel, lower-cobalt materials because short- and medium-term projections consider cobalt the highest material supply chain risk for EVs [13]. Also, because cobalt is the most expensive of the metals used in the current cathode active material of LIBs, some efforts in LIB technology aim to reduce the cost of LIBs by reducing the cobalt content while increasing the nickel content. The increase in nickel content typically also increases the specific energy of the LIBs.

LCA uses a system-wide method to examine and quantify the potential environmental impacts of a product or service, including all the stages of a product's life cycle—such as material production, system manufacture and assembly, the use phase of the product or service, and end-of-life processes [14]. Many studies have used LCA to investigate the environmental impacts of LIB production [[15], [16], [17], [18], [19], [20], [21], [22], [23]]. Some of these LCA studies investigated the effect of variability in the electricity grid on the electricity consumption associated with EVs. However, these studies focused on the electricity consumption as it pertains to the use-phase of the EV and not the production of the traction LIBs [24,25]. Ambrose and Kendall highlighted how GHG emissions from electricity consumption affect the manufacturing of batteries [26]. However, to our knowledge, no study has examined how the regional variability in electricity profile and the transition to high-performance, high‑nickel NMC batteries would collectively affect the life-cycle environmental impacts of LIB production. Researchers have examined the transition to higher‑nickel NMC LIBs, but they did not examine regional variability in the LIB supply chain [17,18]. Kelly et al. examined the regional variability of global LIB production, focusing on just NMC111 LIBs [16]. The projected increase in EV adoption and shift toward higher nickel content for LIBs may require the supply chain for nickel, specifically for battery-grade nickel sulfate, to adapt its feedstock to meet the potential boom in nickel demand. This is important because the potential increase in the demand for nickel-rich chemistries may put a pressure on the current supply chain, resulting in the exploration of lower-quality nickel sources. Therefore, aside from extending the regional variability in LIB production to nickel-rich NMC, this study also uses LCA to examine how the choice of nickel feedstock affects the environmental impacts of LIB production. This study aims to bridge the research gap and provide a more dynamic and comprehensive view of the environmental impacts of global LIB production. It is worth noting that a complete cradle-to-grave LCA that includes the production, use, and end-of-life stages is necessary for making informed decisions that avoid the shifting of burdens. However, this study focused on the production stage of the LIBs to examine the environmental impacts associated with LIB manufacturing and help highlight important factors worth considering to ensure that LIB manufacturing plants are sited and constructed in an increasingly sustainable manner while taking into consideration projected changes in the NMC chemistry of the LIBs. A study conducted by Transport & Environment for Europe reported the carbon footprint of the production and use phase of LIBs [27]; while the study showed a large variability in the use-phase emissions due to the variation in the carbon intensity of the electricity grid in Europe, the effect of the variability of the electricity grid on the LIB production stage was not examined, nor was the effect of changes in cathode chemistry of the LIB.

Cobalt is typically recovered as a byproduct from copper- and/or nickel-rich mines. According to the U.S. Geological Survey, the Democratic Republic of Congo is the leading source of mined cobalt and accounted for 70% of global cobalt mined in 2019 [34]. However, oxides and sulfates of cobalt have been reported to be acceptable precursor materials for cobalt in LIB production [35]. This study leverages the GREET model, which utilizes cobalt sulfate (CoSO4) as the precursor material for battery-grade cobalt. CoSO4 for NMC-based LIBs is mainly produced in China. Producers located in China are reported to account for 80% of global CoSO4 and cobalt oxide production, while most of the remaining 20% is produced in Finland [36]. The cobalt pathway in GREET includes mining the cobalt ore, ore processing, and the refining step to produce CoSO4. Of all these steps, the refining stage is the most energy-intensive in the GREET 2020 model, with the energy requirements for the refining stage satisfied with natural gas (72.2%) and electricity (27.8%) [28]. The ore mining step uses diesel exclusively for its process energy.

Several components of LIBs are either wholly or partially made of aluminum. Components such as the positive foil and positive terminal assembly of the battery cell are wholly made of aluminum, while the cell container, pack jacket, module enclosure, and thermal enclosure partially consist of aluminum. In GREET, aluminum is assumed to be wrought aluminum. For the selected NMC LIBs studied here, the overall aluminum content ranges from 17% to 18% of the LIB weight, as shown in Fig. 2. Primary aluminum production is energy-intensive. It involves two important steps: the conversion of bauxite to alumina using the Bayer process, and the reduction of alumina to pure aluminum, usually via the Hall-Heroult smelting process. Of these two key steps, this study focuses on the aluminum smelting process because electricity consumption for the process makes up a significant share of the process energy consumption (100% for aluminum smelting in GREET, compared to 3.6% for bauxite refining).

In this study, in addition to the GREET baseline, we modeled aluminum obtained from four different countries/regions—China, Europe, Japan, and Korea—as shown in Table 1. We also modeled aluminum produced from hydro- and wind-powered electricity sources. The motivation for the regional variability of the electricity mix for alumina reduction is to examine how the aluminum supply chain affects the overall environmental impacts of NMC LIB production. The electricity profiles assessed are shown in Table 1 (regional aluminum electricity mix is denoted by AL). The baseline for GREET uses electricity grid profiles representative of aluminum production in North America, as shown in Table 1. It is worth noting that Japan's aluminum industry is import-based. The grid profile reported for Japan's aluminum mix in Table 1 is the average grid profile of the countries from which Japan imports aluminum.

The BMS controls the interactions between the LIB and the required load to ensure the safe and reliable operation of the LIB. It continuously monitors the battery to prevent overcharging, complete discharge, and other battery operations outside the safe temperature window of the LIB [42]. In GREET 2020, the BMS is modeled to be produced in the United States with the energy inputs supplied by natural gas and electricity in a 41% to 59% ratio. For the regional variability in the production of the BMS, we used the same scenarios as for cell production, because battery manufacturers are vertically integrating the LIB supply chain.

The LCA carried out in this study examined transitioning to higher‑nickel NMC battery chemistries using different scenarios and multiple supply chains that span several different global regions. Fig. 3 shows the life-cycle GHG emissions for the production of an 84-kWh NMC battery on a per-kilowatt-hour basis for the different NMC cathode chemistries examined considering our baseline conditions.