Various literature reports have attempted to predict supply versus demand for metals used in cathode materials used in LIBS in order to elucidate potential future limitations. Such modeling and predictions prove difficult as the quantification of potential metal resources is highly dependent on public information provided by mining companies and other rel- evant sources, such as the U.S. and British geological sur- veys (USGS[541 and BGS[55]). Potential metal sources are often described in terms of resources and reserves. Resources repre- sent a location in which a given metal is present in the Earth's crust. Reserves, on the other hand, represent resources that are economically feasible to mine.[561 Such feasibility is dependent on the deposit size, metal content and the extraction process required. For example, Bolivia contains the largest known lithium reserve (—21 However, lack of infrastructure for transportation and mining, limited quality of the lithium- containing ore, and political barriers result in this area being undermined.[571 Reserves are, therefore, dynamic—changing according to current socioeconomics, environmental policy and technology.[58] Estimations of supply are reliant on the number of deposits included from existing sources, sources that have announced future mining operations as well as pro- jections towards potential unannounced mining operations (Figure Demand modeling also depends on a large variety of factors including the time frame considered, the projected number of vehicles manufactured within this time frame, the share of different EV technologies in the market, the size of the EVs in question (kWh), the cathode material used and the weight of each metal per kWh (Figure Any difference in the parameters chosen can result in significant modifications in the proposed supply versus demand scenarios.

Gruber et al. projected a total lithium demand over a period from 2010 to 2100 by modeling EV penetration, where annual EV growth beyond 2030 is anticipated to remain constant.[441 Such projections predict 100% EV penetration between 2083 and 2087. This results in an estimated lithium demand of 19.6 Mt, in which batteries dedicated for automotive appli- cations account for approximately 65% of this demand. In this scenario, LIB recycling is estimated at 90%, with 90% recoverable lithium. Such recycling operations would signifi- cantly lower the strain on lithium mining. Evaluating lithium supply versus demand, for 39 Mt of estimated in situ lithium resource, suggests that supplies are suffcient to meet demand at least until 2100. This, however, is highly dependent on the success and implementation of lithium-ion recycling tech- nology. Calisaya-Azpilcueta et al. took a different approach to model lithium through stochastic modeling, combining material flow analysis with both global sensitivity analysis and uncertainty analysis.[59] This allowed the iden- tification of variables that had the most important effect on lithium distribution and EV production; lithium hydroxide production, from both lithium carbonate and hard rock, and battery production. This work did not, however, consider stages beyond production. From their findings arose a prob- able scenario in which increasing demand is not covered by supply. For the time frame considered (2019—2025), this undersupply scenario was shown to be most likely to occur in 2025.[591 As a time frame beyond 2025 was not considered, that is not to say that lithium resources are predicted to be depleted by this time.

Fu et al. applied a series of scenario models for estimating the supply and demand of cobalt over of short-term period (2015—2030). Their results indicated that, based on a high com- pound annual growth rate (CAGR), cobalt demand for EV LIBS accounts for 70% of battery demand by 2030 at 250 kt.[49] In addition to other battery applications and non-battery applica- tions, in an aggressive high-demand scenario, it is projected that cobalt demand will reach 430 kt by 2030. This is closely matched to the projected 458 kt of supplied cobalt, under the same scenario conditions.[49] This work, therefore, envisages that cobalt supply will meet short-term demand. The possi- bility of recovering secondary cobalt through the recycling of electronics is estimated to provide an additional 17 kt into the supply chain (at a recovery effciency of