The demand for batteries from the automotive industry sector is the main driver for the future lithium-ion battery market. The cell manufacturing market is dominated by a few large players from Asia, with China getting more important. Cell costs will level out around €75 kWh−1 in the second half of the next decade. Increased volumetric energy density is the main cost reduction lever, but manufacturing processes will also provide further cost reduction opportunities. In that context, for solid state technology to be successful in automotive application, it must fulfil all important performance requirements such as fast charging capabilities, long cycle life and safety, while being significantly cheaper. Process technology development will scale volume of cathode active material processing units, causing a severe cost disadvantage risk to small sized players. Overall, demand for (battery-grade) nickel, cobalt and lithium will increase significantly. Therefore price risks due to high concentration levels for raw and refined materials and political country risks need to be mitigated, but supply shortages are unlikely. As a consequence recycling is getting increasingly important—from a cost perspective, as well as from the perspective of securing raw material supply.

For Ni-rich chemistries, only Nickel Grade I can be used. Due to high demand from lithium-ion batteries that require this higher quality, low investments because of low market prices for Nickel that are below cash costs of lots of mines, and recent mine shut-down in Phillipines, a supply-demand-deficit is expected from 2022 onwards. Significant price risks (with prices doubling compared to 2018) can therefore be expected.

For cobalt, no supply deficit is expected. The speculative price increase in 2018 led to significant investments on both the mining and refinery side. Also additional supply is available from recycling. Therefore an only moderate increase in prices is expected.

Lithium supply capacities are expected to exceed global Li demand until 2024 due to new lithium mines starting production. Price increases might lead to the installation of new conversion capacities so that the currently visible supply deficit in 2025 will likely not materialize.

The need for risk mitigation will impact cell costs to a certain extent—but at the same time, coordinated actions between the partners in the supply chain are necessary to avoid “over-hedging”, and also in order not to stimulate speculation as observed in the last 18 months for both cobalt and lithium prices.

Recycling (“urban mining”) is becoming increasingly important—from a cost perspective, as well as from the perspective of securing raw material supply—but there are still challenges.