Plug- in electric vehicle (PEV) use in the United States (US) has doubled in recent years and is projected to continue increasing rapidly. This is especially true in California, which makes up nearly onethird of the current US PEV market. Planning and constructing the necessary infrastructure to support this projected increase requires insight into the optimal strategies for PEV battery recycling. Utilizing life-cycle perspectives in evaluating these supply chain networks is essential in fully understanding the environmental consequences of this infrastructure expansion. This study combined life-cycle assessment and geographic information systems (GIS) to analyze the energy, greenhouse gas (GHG), water use, and criteria air pollutant implications of end-of-life infrastructure networks for lithium-ion batteries (LIBs) in California. Multiple end-of-life scenarios were assessed, including hydrometallurgical and pyrometallurgical recycling processes. Using economic and environmental criteria, GIS modeling revealed optimal locations for battery dismantling and recycling facilities for in-state and out-of-state recycling scenarios. Results show that economic return on investment is likely to diminish if more than two in-state dismantling facilities are constructed. Using rail as well as truck transportation can substantially reduce transportation-related GHG emissions (23-45%) for both in-state and out-of-state recycling scenarios. The results revealed that material recovery from pyrometallurgy can offset environmental burdens associated with LIB production, namely a 6-56% reduction in primary energy demand and 23% reduction in GHG emissions, when compared to virgin production. Incorporating human health damages from air emissions into the model indicated that Los Angeles and Kern Counties are most at risk in the infrastructure scale-up for in-state recycling due to their population density and proximity to the optimal location.

California so far lacks the infrastructure to manage LiBs at their end-of-life, and the supporting supply chain growth must comply with GHG emission restrictions [9]. The state also presents unique environmental challenges, as the impact of water use and criteria air pollutant emissions can vary significantly across the region. To fully understand the implications of scaling up PEV recycling in California, decision makers must be equipped with models that provide likely infrastructure build-out scenarios for battery collection, dismantling, and recycling, accounting for complete life-cycle environmental implications.

The GIS modeling methodology was designed to estimate the economic costs, GHG emissions, and human health impacts associated with the supply chain of the PEV batteries during their end-of-life. The scope of this project was to create a centralized recycling scenario for California and optimize the facility locations to minimize the economic and environmental impacts of the supply chain. The centralized scenario assumed one recycling facility with the capacity to satisfy the annual disposed battery flows. This assumption was based on the use of pyrometallurgy for recycling, a capital-intensive technology that can accept many variations of LIBs. An optimization analysis was used to estimate the optimal number of dismantling facilities in the system based on the minimization of capital and transportation costs. An algorithm was developed for geospatial optimization of dismantling and recycling facility sites using a location-allocation methodology that integrates the economic and environmental metrics into the segments of a GIS network [23]. The optimization process was based on the minimization of the total ton-kilometers transported between the collection points and the final recycling destination. This is the appropriate objective function to minimize as the economic and environmental costs correspond to the total distance traveled by applying specific metrics and emission factors.

Battery recycling processes will be crucial to diverting PEV batteries from waste streams, but the full impacts of collecting, dismantling, and recycling these batteries must be accounted for. The collection and transportation of batteries contributes significantly to environmental and economic burdens, highlighting the need for improved optimization of end-of-life logistics. Moreover, the specific location of these activities has a strong effect on the overall human health impacts of recycling supply chains. This study demonstrates the feasibility and effectiveness of integrated models as an analytical and planning tool for decision makers. The model presented here provides a framework for integrating geospatial scenario analysis and LCA to support infrastructure decision-making.