3. Background information
3.1. Lithium mineral resources and reserves in quebec
The province of Quebec currently leads the Canadian picture with respect to lithium mineral reserves across Canada, totaling 31.7 million tons of proven reserves with an average calculated grade of 1.23% Li2O and 60.9 million tons of probable reserves with an average calculated grade of 0.98% Li2O (Table 1). Considering the 11 lithium projects listed in Table 1, Canada has a total of 98.4 Mt of documented mineral reserves (proven and probable), of which 94.1% are in Quebec. Among the 248.14 Mt of documented mineral resources in Canada, Quebec holds 85.8% of them. Moreover, it should be noted that the province presents a world-class deposit of lithium-rich pegmatites: the Whabouchi project. This project alone represents 37.2% and 22.4% of the country's mineral reserves and mineral resources, respectively.

It should be noted that, among the lithium projects in Quebec that have reported mineral reserves, the final product is not always the same. Other important parameters also vary from one project to another. Table 2, elaborated with data from Nemaska Lithium (2019), Sayona Quebec (2019), Canada Lithium Corp (2012) and Critical Elements Corp (2017), summarizes the relevant information about each one of them.

To be used in the production of batteries for EVs, the spodumene concentrate must be further processed. Indeed, lithium carbonate (as planned for Quebec Lithium mine) and lithium monohydrated hydroxide (as planned for Whabouchi mine) are the two lithium compounds employed for battery cathode production, with carbonate currently making up the bulk of usage (S&P Global, 2019). Since production quantities are often expressed as lithium carbonate equivalent (LCE), conversions were made from Li and LMH to LCE applying a factor of 5.323 and 0.880, respectively (BGS, 2016).

3.2. Lithium demand for the Quebec's EV fleet
Two aspects must be considered in order to assess the potential demand for lithium for the Quebec's EV fleet: the average amount of lithium in a car Li-ion battery, and the projected annual number of new EV sales in the province. In fact, each car model is characterized by the energy capacity of the battery, and a lithium mass index per unit of energy is used to represent the amount of lithium required (Li/kWh).

3.2.1. Consumption for EV batteries
The amount of lithium required per kWh of battery represents a fundamental element to be considered to quantify the market demand for EVs. However, its estimation is anything but straightforward (Speirs et al., 2014). The so-called lithium-ion battery actually encompasses a variety of chemical systems (materials and reactions). The common element for all of them consists in involving lithium ions moving back and forth between the electrodes (cathode ↔ anode), but the different applications do not all rely on the same complete reversible electrochemical reaction, which is determined by the cathode composition. The amount of Li required will vary accordingly. Obviously, the cell chemistry and metal content of any given commercial power pack represents confidential intellectual property.

3.2.2. Quebec EV fleet annual growth
There are different types of electrically powered vehicles, such as hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs) and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs), which use two power sources, and EVs, which are powered entirely by batteries and an electric powertrain. PHEVs and EVs are recharged by plugging them into a terminal connected to the electrical grid. In the last few years, the annualized growth rate of EVs in Quebec was around 57% (AVEQ, 2020). Table 3 summarizes the details of the powered vehicle fleet in the province of Quebec. The data comes from AVEQ (2020) (for the most popular vehicles), CIRAIG (2016) (for the assembly location), and from the respective vehicle manufacturers (for the battery capacity).

6. Conclusions
The province of Quebec has important lithium resources necessary for the production of lithium-ion batteries. Some of the deposits have already proven to have mineral reserves and could soon be in production. Quebec's lithium mineral reserves are currently the largest in Canada. Their eventual extraction would largely exceed the provincial demand for lithium for EV local market over a 33-to-58-year horizon.

If all the spodumene concentrate production from the four Quebec projects with declared mineral reserves was converted into LCE for the manufacturing of EV batteries, the province would have an excess amount of LCE concentrate equivalent to between 10 and 22 million lithium-ion batteries, on the basis of the established assumptions for the base case scenario. One of the options that could be considered is to add value to its local production by becoming a producer and exporter of lithium-ion batteries for EVs. This is in agreement with results from a previous study, which highlighted the potential for Quebec to integrate with other local or nearby partners, generating a joint benefit throughout the chain of manufacturing lithium-ion batteries for the EV market (Ibarra-Gutiérrez et al., 2021). Thus, the proximity to the American and Ontario automobile industry represents an interesting leverage.

Currently, Quebec's fleet of ICEVs emits more than 17 Mt of equivalent CO2 annually. Comparatively, the production of 14–28 million of lithium-ion batteries from lithium hydroxide monohydrate in Quebec, under the conditions of the Whabouchi project, would result in the emission of between 1.49 and 2.99 Mt of CO2, respectively, in terms of energy demand (electricity and natural gas). Although the production would rely on a highly energy-intensive (electrochemical plant), it highlights one of Quebec's most important advantages: the emission factor for its electricity grid is as low as 1.2 g CO2/kWh. A Quebec-based lithium battery materials production thus demonstrates its competitivity in terms of GHG emissions even if foreign sources exhibit lower energy consumption.

The scenario of local production of lithium-ion batteries for EVs in Quebec would also help to avoid the emission of between 73.31 and 118.22 kg CO2 per ton of LCE produced considering only the transportation requirements for lithium compounds. However, a further analysis should be carried out to estimate the global emissions producing the materials and assembling lithium-ion batteries locally.

Finally, if a Quebec-based lithium hydroxide monohydrate industry would bring clear advantages for GHG emissions, it seems that engineering and financial challenges still overshadow the actual realization of the project. The global market premises still hold, and however a given venture can be attractive on an environmental basis, the profitability and competitivity will ultimately decide its faith. Future work will aim at studying this specific issue.
