Designing and developing sustainable circular supply chain networks for electric vehicle (EV) lithium-ion battery recycling and production requires complex environmental sustainability and economic viability assessment. EVs use a lot of data for battery management and delivering optimum performance, and the Internet of Things (IoT) plays a major role in managing this data. This study develops a bi-objective mixed-integer linear programming model for designing a sustainable circular supply chain to manage the manufacturing, remanufacturing, and distribution of EV lithium-ion batteries under uncertainty using the IoT and big data. The proposed model simultaneously minimizes total costs and CO2 emissions and uses IoT to improve network performance and create a traceable and secure environment. A fuzzy multi-objective method solves the bi-objective optimization model under uncertainty, and a simulation algorithm examines the effectiveness of the proposed model through simulated problems.

A mathematical planning tool is a practical tool in supply chain network design. Literature review shows that mathematical models have been used abundantly in the structuring of traditional supply chains (Farahani et al., 2014; Govindan et al., 2017; Hu et al., 2023), green/sustainable supply chains (Ebrahim Qazvini et al., 2021; Joshi, 2022; Nasiri et al., 2023), closed-loop/circular supply chains (Govindan et al., 2020; Govindan et al., 2023; Zhang et al., 2021), sustainable closed-loop/circular supply chains (Tavana et al., 2022; Zhang et al., 2023; Zhen et al., 2019), and virtual supply chains (Prajapati, Chan, et al., 2022 and 2002b; Shambayati et al., 2022).

To design a green Closed-Loop Supply Chain (CLSC) network including reverse and forward flows, Mardan et al. (2019) suggested a bi-objective MILP model and a benders decomposition algorithm to optimize operational and strategic decisions in the cable and wire industry. The objective functions of their model are dedicated to economic and environmental issues and simultaneously minimize the negative environmental effects and the total costs. Hajiaghaei-Keshteli and Fathollahi Fard (2019) developed a sustainable CLSC network considering discounts via a mixed-integer non-linear programming (MINLP) model. They considered all three sides of sustainability (i.e., social, environmental, and economic) in structuring the investigated network. They evaluated the efficiency of their proposed model using data from the glass industry. Nasr et al. (2021) presented a hybrid framework based on a MILP model and multi-criteria decision-making techniques for structuring a sustainable CLSC network considering circular supplier evaluation under uncertainty. They employed a fuzzy goal programming (GP) approach for solving their presented multi-objective optimization model and used data from the garment industry to validate it. Using resilience and sustainability strategies, Mehrjerdi and Shafiee (2021) configured a CLSC network to reduce network risks and increase economic, environmental, and social efficiency. Their model minimizes environmental effects and total costs and maximizes job creation. They applied an augmented epsilon-constraint method for solving their multi-objective optimization model.

Soleimani et al. (2022) developed a heuristic algorithm to solve a CLSC problem considering energy consumption and sustainability. They minimize energy consumption and costs and maximize job opportunities with the help of a multi-objective MILP model. Seydanlou et al. (2022) designed a sustainable CLSC network to optimize strategic and operational decisions in the olive industry. They used meta-heuristic algorithms to solve their proposed problem. Govindan et al. (2022) presented a bi-objective optimization model for healthcare waste management to transition toward CE. They employed a stochastic scenario-based method to control uncertain parameters and an augmented epsilon-constraint method for solving their presented bi-objective optimization model. Tavana et al. (2022) formulated a comprehensive model to form a sustainable CLSC network by focusing on all three aspects of sustainability. In their model, the economic objective function minimizes total costs, the environmental objective function minimizes CO2 emissions, and the social objective function maximizes job opportunities. They employed a fuzzy GP method to solve their multi-objective MILP model.

Shambayati et al. (2022) proposed a virtual CLSC network for the first time using the concept of IoT and mathematical programming tools. The aim of their model was profit maximization, and they utilized meta-heuristic algorithms to solve their problem. In this vein, Prajapati, Jauhar, et al. (2022) structured a virtual CLSC network using an MINLP model. They used IoT devices and blockchain technology for this purpose. In addition, Tavana et al. (2023) formulated an optimization model for configuring an SCSC network and developed a Lagrangian relaxation algorithm to solve problems of large sizes. They applied an artificial IoT to increase the security and performance of the network and create a traceable environment. A MILP model to optimize a CLSC in the agricultural industry to minimize strategic and operational costs was developed by Rajabi-Kafshgar et al. (2023). They used meta-heuristic algorithms to solve their presented problem. Govindan et al. (2023) proposed a circular CLSC network for structuring an inventory-location-routing problem considering a carbon tax policy in the cable and wire industry. Their MILP model minimizes total costs and lost sales simultaneously. They applied an augmented epsilon-constraint method to solve their presented bi-objective optimization model. Goodarzian et al. (2023) structured a sustainable circular CLSC network with the help of a multi-objective MILP model to increase sustainability in the citrus industry. They utilized the epsilon-constraint method for solving their tri-objective model and developed meta-heuristic algorithms to solve their problem in large sizes. A bi-objective MINLP model for designing a CLSC network in the mobile phone industry was formulated by Keshavarz-Ghorbani and Pasandideh (2023) to optimize strategic and operational decisions. Their model aims to create a trade-off between social benefit and profit. They used an epsilon-constraint method to solve their bi-objective model.

In this section, we use expert knowledge and data from Lition Technology,1 a large manufacturer of EV lithium-ion batteries in the Middle East, to validate the proposed model. This company currently manufactures about 0.9% of electric vehicle batteries globally, with a capacity of 8.5 Gigawatt hours. For two reasons, it was not possible to use the precise data of the case study to validate the proposed model. The first and most important reason is that, for security reasons, the company did not allow their detailed data to be published, and the second is that historical data was not available for all parameters. For this purpose, with the help of experts and available historical data, a simulation algorithm was developed to generate data. The simulation process is designed based on coefficients and approximations of real-world data. For a better understanding, consider the demand parameter. To generate the data of this parameter, historical documents of the company were examined in a specific time horizon, and the lower and upper bounds of the demand were determined in the investigated time horizon. Because we were not allowed to report the precise values of the demand parameter, we multiplied the identified lower and upper bounds into a coefficient. Then, by reviewing the literature, we found that researchers usually use uniform distribution functions to simulate parameters in supply chain network design models (Babaeinesami et al., 2022; Nosrati-Abarghooee et al., 2023); For this reason, we also applied these functions to simulate the parameters. The probability distribution functions used to simulate the data are shown in Table 2. One of the features of the proposed simulation algorithm is that a feasible solution space is formed for each desired value of the indices. Also, the parameters applied in the probability distribution functions are approximations of the real-world data, leading to the simulated data being close to the real-world data.