Sustained growth in lithium-ion battery (LIB) demand within the transportation sector (and the electricity sector) motivates detailed investigations of whether future raw materials supply will reconcile with resulting material requirements for these batteries. We track the metal content associated with compounds used in LiBs. We find that most of the key constituents, including manganese, nickel, and natural graphite, have sufficient supply to meet the anticipated increase in demand for LiBs. There may be challenges in rapidly scaling the use of materials associated with lithium and cobalt in the short term. Due to long battery lifetimes and multiple end uses, recycling is unlikely to provide significant short-term supply. There are risks associated with the geopolitical concentrations of these elements, particularly for cobalt. The lessons revealed in this work can be relevant to other industries in which the rapid growth of a materials-dependent technology disrupts the global supply of those materials.

Recent literature offers some consensus that the challenges of Li production are not whether there is enough material, but rather whether production can ramp up quickly enough? Just examining whether supply meets demand does not provide insight into this rate problem.!? The recent and rapid consumption of LIBs (73% growth from 2010 to 2014) is coupled with only a 28% growth in production, leading to a consumption-production imbalance. 34 Therefore, concerns continue to surface about the potential supply chain bottleneck between beneficiated LiCO and battery-grade material.

However, based on the supply diversity and the significant attention this topic has received, many firms are positioned to respond relatively rapidly to disruptions. Several studies rely on increased recycling to mitigate issues around Li supply, but given the litetimes of LIBs used in EVs, recycling will not provide significant supply in the near future, as the stock in use will be small relative to the demand. Furthermore, as Li has proved challenging to recover (recycle) economically under current prices, any Li recovered in response to a short-term stock will come from resources currently in the ground.

So far the discussions in this article have focused on the geographical distribution of the raw materials associated with LIBs. Also of interest is where the manufacturing of the actual cells will occur. Recent focus in the battery manufacturing industry has been in China, where signiticant manufacturing is projected to occur. Including production in Japan and Korea, these three countries constitute 85% of manufacturing capability for LiBs for all end-use applications. Generally the supply chain for LiBs is dominated by trade within Asia (South Korea, Japan, and China), with the largest trade flow of products from China to the United States. 32 While this may shift in the future, current trends indicate that China will still play a critical role in this supply chain. For example, while the gigafactory in Nevada has been projected to reach capacity of 35 GWh by the end of 2020, China's capacity could be almost double that by the same year.

We have said nothing so far in this analysis regarding the manufacture of LIB electrolytes, largely because electrolyte supply has not been subject to resource constraints to date. The most commonly used electrolyte is an Li salt such as LiPF6, LiBF4, or LiClO4 in an organic solvent that combines linear and cyclic carbonates (e.g., ethylene carbonate and dimethyl carbonate). The market for LIB electrolytes was roughly 62 kt in 2015, with production dominated by Asian companies (China, 60%; Japan, 18%; Korea, 14%).48 Industry reports indicate that there is currently likely overcapacity for electrolytes, with most Asian companies operating at less than half of capacity and with several American and European companies operating at less than 10% capacity.