Development in electrical energy storage has attracted several researches due to its solutions multiplicity. The research focus of this study was to identify the main features of battery global value chain for urban light electric vehicle in South Korea and Japan. The global value chain is utilized to analyze company core competencies to achieve cost reduction and product differentiation, thereby increasing productivity and profits, and finally, the macroeconomic growth of a country. Interviews, to obtain primary data, have performed overseas at Japanese and South Korean companies, involved in the production and sales of batteries. From the data analysis, it can be inferred that there are global integration prospects of the value chain with the production of some components out of these Asian countries and Brazil as a potential participant. This exploratory research has mixed methods of data gathering, i.e., triangulation. With regards to data collection, documents available from companies were analyzed; plants and R&D centers were visited to performing interviews with executives. Within the global value chain, ensuring lithium supply has become priority for companies. Thus, lithium mining could be a path for Brazil to become part in the battery global value chain. This argument is justified in two ways. First, Brazil has technology and experience in mining provided by the Vale Company. Large lithium reserves are in neighboring countries in South America. Second, Argentina is a MERCOSUL member and it could be beneficial to both countries to extract lithium for batteries. The main technical challenges faced by electric vehicle are the battery lifetime as well as the need for a specific charging infrastructure. Furthermore, Brazil will face challenges and opportunities in developing high-value activities within battery global value chain. The public policy suggested is to map the components from battery global value chain and highlighting those that can or should be produce in Brazil for strategic technology development.

Battery power in an internal combustion vehicle is utilized for starting the engine and other functions such as electronic fuel injection, ignition of lights and air conditioning. Besides these functions, battery power in electric vehicle is also responsible for supplying power to the electric engine that will move the vehicle, i.e., the lithium-ion battery will replace the fuel tank.

According to Rosolem (2012), as lithium is a small and light element, lithium batteries have higher power level and energy per mass unit. In addition, for those applications where size and weight are important requirements, the lithium-ion batteries are suitable.

Batteries currently account for about 40% of the electric vehicle's weight and make up approximately 50% of the final price. Its energy efficiency gives electric vehicle a range of up to 150 km on average, reaching 120 km/h and can withstand up to 2000 recharge cycles (approximately 5 years). After this period, the batteries may be used in other places, such as in machinery industry, replacing the current lead-acid batteries. This expansion of the economic useful life of the battery will positively affect the residual value and, consequently, the total cost of ownership of the vehicle (Jussani and Albertin, 2013).

The lithium battery is fully recyclable and there are factors that may increase its price: such as a shortage in global supply of lithium and rare earth material, political problems in countries with high production. On the other hand, besides the increase in the global supply of lithium and rare earth element, other factors that may reduce the price are improvements in battery technology and large-scale production (Burke, Jungers, Yang, & Ogden, 2007).

The rechargeable battery is the product that has the largest growth potential of lithium compounds – it is not an abundant ore and its reserves are concentrated in a few countries. In Fig. 2, approximately 60% of lithium reserves are concentrated in South America in Argentina, Chile and Bolivia. Brazil has 0.5% of the lithium world reserves (US Geological Survey, 2016).