Major Li producers and suppliers
Globally, Li is mostly recovered from sea brine or hard rock. Among hard rocks, Pegmatite contains a significant amount of Li. Pegmatite is further processed to Li bearing mineral like spodumene (3.7% Li)9, followed by the preparation of LCO or lithium hydroxide. Extraction of Li from sea brine is less expensive, as compared to that from Pegmatite.

Currently, the top Li producers, Albemarle and Sociedad Química y Minera (SQM), process LCO from Chile’s largest salt flat, named Salar de Atacama. An-
other Li producer, Food Machinery Corporation (FMC), produces lithium hydroxide and LCO from Argentina’s Salar del Hombre Muerto lithium brine deposit.

Though the extraction of Li from hard rock is expensive, it requires lesser time, as compared to its extraction from sea brine. Australia currently produces the highest
amount of Li globally, mainly from hard rock. Australian company, Talison Lithium, extracts lithium-concentrate (spodumene) from the world’s largest lithium ore deposit
in Greenbushes, Western Australia. China based Sichuan Tianqi Lithium own 51% share of Talison Lithium and the US based Albemarle owns 49% share in it. Sichuan Tianqi Lithium further processes the spodumene in China to produce LCO. Albemarle supplies Li to Panasonic Corp., Syngenta AG, Umicore SA, Samsung SDI Co. Ltd and Royal DSM NV. 

Globally, one of the top EV manufacturers, Build Your Dream (BYD) takes Li from Tibet’s Lake Zabuye. The mining is operated by Tibet Shigatse Zhabuye Lithium
High-Tech Co. Ltd. In 2016, BYD bought 18% stake in Tibet Shigatse Zhabuye Lithium High-Tech Co. Ltd. BYD also signed a deal in 2016 with the Qinghai Salt Lake Industry Group Co., where BYD owns 48% stake in the Li mining project.

India has a very small known Li reserve, as compared to other countries like Chile,
Bolivia and Australia. Dar et al.11 has reported about Li availability in India, based on a geological survey. According to the report, the Li oreLepidolite is present in the Bihar mica belt, while Pegmatite is present in Chitalnar, Mundwal and Govindpal areas of south Chhattisgarh. As per the Geological Survey of India12, Maralagall-Allapatna area in the eastern parts of Srirangapatna, Karnataka, contains spodumene, whereas Kabbur and Doddakadanur, Karnataka contain Li ore hiddenite.

Way forward
The study estimated the maximum potential of the Indian market for LIBs in EV and grid storage applications, which are 14 GWh by 2020 and 15 GWh by 2022, respectively. To manufacture this capacity LIBs indigenously, 24 and 20 thousand tonnes of LCO will be required for EV and grid storage, respectively. In view of this huge demand, this Note presented an overview of the different industries associated with the global LIB supply chain.

We propose the following recommendations for building a LIB ecosystem, which will have a huge impact on the national EV and renewables targets, considering the crucial role that LIB plays in these sectors:

1. The government’s ‘Make in India’ programme can be leveraged; LCO can be imported from countries with rich Li reserves such as Chile, Argentina, etc.19 (Figure 4) to manufacture batteries in India. India can also import Li-concentrate spodumene from Australia and process it domestically.

2. The government should support and incentivize local industries to synthesize battery-grade spherical graphite, which will reduce import dependency. At present, spherical graphite is manufactured only in China. However, indigenization will have to consider environmental concerns as fine carbon dust, which is a by-product from manufacturing graphite and hazardous.

3. For ensuring steady supply of cobalt, nickel and other key materials, Memorandum of Understandings (MoU) with mineral-rich countries like Congo, Australia, the Philippines and Indonesia will reduce India’s supply chain vulnerability.

4. To support indigenous manufacturing, the government should reduce import duties on raw material and equipment. Moreover, providing initial capital subsidies to manufacturers will encourage greater penetration and development of a domestic LIB industry.

5. The government and private players can jointly develop a LIB manufacturing framework. This will open up the door for a huge work force and expertise advancement. It will give a boost not just to battery enterprises, but also to parallel industries.

6. India should identify emerging, high-performing LIB variants and take lead in manufacturing, with the help of R&D support. This includes enhancement of battery capacity as well as cycle life, which will bring down the cost of batteries. There is also a need to find a stable electrolyte (non-flammable) with high voltage tolerance to prevent thermal runaway, for safe operation.

7. India needs to develop expertise at large-scale battery pack assembly with BMS, under the ‘Skill India’ initiatives. This will enable players to set-up a long-term, sustainable LIB production ecosystem and facilitate employment generation.
