Current trends in transport electrification and mobile technologies have created an increas - ing demand for raw materials needed for battery production. The supply chains involved are global, complex, non-transparent and sometimes associated with unsustainable production practices. To improve on the current situation, it is essential to trace battery raw materials back to their origins to verify the conditions in which they were produced. This demand for increased transparency has triggered actions in European Union legislation and among companies operating within battery supply chains.

Several drivers are identified for traceability. The main driver comes from regulatory development, such as the EU's battery directives. Customer awareness of sustainability issues is also beginning to influence manufacturers (OEMs) to invest in the transparency of their battery metal supply chains. In addition, the producers of sustainable and low emission raw materials have identified the commercial benefit of tracing the greenhouse gas emissions of their products along the supply chain. Current sustainability and reporting systems used within the mining industry are inadequate to comply with the increased traceability needs, as their focus is limited to the beginning of the supply chain.

The traceability pilots that are currently in use are still limited in scope. For traceability to become commonplace in mining supply chains, OEMs will need to recognize the overall commercial benefits of traceability. Ethical questions dominate in the sustainability considerations on cobalt production, and there are indications that the cobalt market may be separating into traceable and certified cobalt, and bulk cobalt. For lithium and graphite production, the dominating sustainability considerations relate to water and energy consumption and dust.

Lithium and graphite are not currently communicated to be included in any digital traceability solution under preparation, but they have been included in BATTRACE research for the geo-based fingerprinting method.

Geo-based fingerprinting has considerable commercial potential as a traceability method and a verification tool. As the geological and elemental characteristics of a sample cannot be falsified, the method has unique potential as a stand-alone traceability technology, or as a complementary verification method with any other traceability system. The method could also serve as a verification tool in the "Metals from Finland" certificate, which could sharpen the marketing of sustainable and traceable battery metals production from Finland.

Traceability has become an integral element for many global industries with complex supply chains, such as food production and logistics. However, no comprehensive traceability systems for battery supply chains are currently available. There are several on-going development projects to tackle this issue, and many companies working within the mining industry have taken the challenge on and developed intercompany systems to trace raw materials within their processes. As the demand for battery materials grows exponentially, so will the importance of environmental, social and governance (ESG) systems used within the mining sector. In business and consumer markets, there is also a logical need to develop functioning traceability systems for battery supply chains.

Traceability in supply chains should provide a tool to identify the origin of the raw materials used, and the location of the upgrading and manufacturing plants along the supply chain. This, in turn, will provide a possibility to consider the level of sustainability of supply chains by tracking, for example, carbon footprints, human rights and quality of governance.

This chapter discusses selected methods for traceability in battery mineral supply chains, including enabling factors such as chain-of-custody models and existing sustainability and reporting systems used in the mining industry.