Empirically, there is a small but growing literature that examines the role of critical materials in global For example, Eggert et al. (2016) discuss the how rare earths can disrupt markets and global supply chains from exploration, through to separation, end use, and recycling, while Olivetti et al. (2017) look at different bottlenecks that may lead to shortages in cobalt and lithium. Finally, Habib et al. (2016) provide a dynamic perspective on the geopolitical supply risk of metals more generally while Tisserant and Pauliuk (2016) show how cobalt demand is impacted under different co-production and mining attractiveness assumptions.

Although demand-side constraints are important, one should not discount the supply-side challenges. The scale of investment required by the automotive industry is considerable: For example, Volkswagen alone have committed to spending over 33 billion Euros in developing electrified powertrains between 2019 and 2023. This would be challenging at the best of times, but current market conditions are far from conducive to this scale of capital outlay: since 2018 global vehicle sales declined for three successive years (OICA statistics). Furthermore, a range of technical and investment challenges also apply at different stages of the supply chain. The complexity and cost of battery recycling (particularly in compliance with high environmental standards), and the absence of recycling capacity, is a good case in point.

The trends in demand for critical materials for EVs, if they continue, are set to have a major bearing on raw material trade flows with the concomitant supply chain risks. This is largely due to the geographic mismatch between auto-chain production growth (centred in Asia, Europe and, albeit to a lesser extent, the US) and the locus of resource production (dominated by Australia, the Americas and Africa). Jones e/ a/. (2020) find, for example, that China's Share Of global Lithium and Cobalt demand for transport Oncreasingly the dominant end user) is likely to rise to about 680/0 in 2030. Figure 8 presents the current LiB cell capacity for a range Of countries for 2017 and shows China's dominance.

Trends in battery production have led to renewed efforts by a number of advanced countries to promote the development of a domestic battery manufacturing capacity (supply chain risks have risen up the political agenda due in part to the COVID-19 crisis and deteriorating Sino-US relations). In 2019, for example, the European Commission warned "the EU's high dependency on battery cell imports could expose the industry to higher costs and that risks to the supply chain could undermine the automotive industry's ability to compete with foreign competitors" (EU Commission, 2019). While policies to support the mitigation of these risks have been somewhat slow to emerge, regional investment into the sector is now beginning to flow. For example, the EIB recently announced its intention to increase funding to battery-related projects to over €1 billion (US$I. 1 billion) during 2020 alone (European Investment Bank, 2020). The US government has also started to intervene, including an agreement to fund domestic production of rare earth elements (which are a key input to E V s, wind turbines, and the defence industry), in an effort to limit its import dependency on China.

Supply chain issues are looking increasingly likely to extend to mineral processing capacity, which is also heavily concentrated in Asia. For example, China accounts for 47% of lithium carbonate and cobalt refinery capacity (although there has been some rebalancing of processing capacity towards raw material exporters such as Australia in recent years) (NREL, 2019). A similar level of dominance is also observed in other key intermediates markets such as manganese and nickel sulphate. Despite the US' recent strategic investment in rare earth production, due to a lack of domestic capacity, the mined ores are still shipped to China for processing.