Battery power in an internal combustion vehicle is utilized for starting the engine and other functions such as electronic fuel injection, ignition of lights and air conditioning. Besides these functions, battery power in electric vehicle is also responsible for supplying power to the electric engine that will move the vehicle, i.e., the lithium-ion battery will replace the fuel tank.

According to Rosolem (2012), as lithium is a small and light element, lithium batteries have higher power level and energy per mass unit. In addition, for those applications where size and weight are important requirements, the lithium-ion batteries are suitable.

Batteries currently account for about 40% of the electric vehicle's weight and make up approximately 50% of the final price. Its energy efficiency gives electric vehicle a range of up to 150 km on average, reaching 120 km/h and can withstand up to 2000 recharge cycles (approximately 5 years). After this period, the batteries may be used in other places, such as in machinery industry, replacing the current lead-acid batteries. This expansion of the economic useful life of the battery will positively affect the residual value and, consequently, the total cost of ownership of the vehicle (Jussani and Albertin, 2013).

The lithium battery is fully recyclable and there are factors that may increase its price: such as a shortage in global supply of lithium and rare earth material, political problems in countries with high production. On the other hand, besides the increase in the global supply of lithium and rare earth element, other factors that may reduce the price are improvements in battery technology and large-scale production (Burke, Jungers, Yang, & Ogden, 2007).

The rechargeable battery is the product that has the largest growth potential of lithium compounds – it is not an abundant ore and its reserves are concentrated in a few countries. In Fig. 2, approximately 60% of lithium reserves are concentrated in South America in Argentina, Chile and Bolivia. Brazil has 0.5% of the lithium world reserves (US Geological Survey, 2016).