Limited transparency on the sustainability of the lithium-ion battery supply chain (LIBSC) could impede a rapid scale-up of the electric vehicle battery ecosystem, which is required for the decarbonization of the transportation sector. A comprehensive and commonly accepted framework to assess the sustainability of this industry is currently missing. To address this research gap, a mixed-methods approach comprising a literature review, several expert interviews, two workshops, and a two-round Delphi study is conducted. 29 aspects concerning the LIBSC's sustainability are derived and prioritized according to their importance and ease of implementation. Furthermore, 30 barriers for establishing the required transparency in the LIBSC are identified. The results show that a broad range of criteria has to be incorporated to comprehensively evaluate battery sustainability. Thereby, greenhouse gas emissions, circularity indicators, and human rights and safety issues are considered the most crucial, while the least importance is attributed to economic aspects. A broad range of barriers to such assessments are identified, many of which stem from the interaction and relationships among supply chain tiers or originate at one tier and affect another upstream or downstream counterpart. Overall, the study's results indicate that assuring compliance with existing sustainability standards might be a feasible and pragmatic approach to cope with the considerable variety of important sustainability aspects. Moreover, the identified barriers imply that meaningful assessments can only be achieved via cross-tier assessments and considerable collaborations among the stakeholders of the rapidly evolving LIBSC.

Using a mixed-methods approach, this paper derived 29 sustainability aspects for the evaluation of the LIBSC. Drawing on expert judgment, the aspects were prioritized and 30 information sharing barriers for implementing sustainability assessments in the LIBSC were identified. The study's central results are summarized in the following. First, a wide array of topics involving all four dimensions of sustainability (environmental, social, governance, and economic) should be incorporated to evaluate the LIBSC comprehensively. Second, GHG emissions, circularity aspects, and human rights and safety issues are considered the most critical, while the economic dimension received the lowest prioritization. Third, leveraging and evaluating compliance with already existing sustainability standards is regarded as a feasible approach to address the variability and complexity of sustainability aspects in the LIBSC. Fourth, while the identified information sharing barriers reflect an equally broad range, many of them revolve around the interactions, interdependencies, and relationships between the various supply chain actors in the rapidly involving LIB ecosystem.

Like any research, this paper faces several limitations, which, at the same time, offer additional opportunities for future research. First, while the Delphi study's panel assembled a diverse and comprehensive range of experts across the various steps of the LIBSC, a comparative quantitative analysis among the subgroups was not performed due to their partially small size. Performing a more granular stakeholder analysis in future research might yield valuable insights for designing actual indicators closely to individual practitioner requirements. Second, while this study performed a comprehensive prioritization for the derived LIBSC sustainability aspects via a Delphi study, no comparable analysis was conducted for the identified barriers. As a relatively high number of 30 barriers has been listed, it would be interesting for subsequent studies to investigate their relative importance, level of influence, and interconnectedness. Analyzing the barriers in such a way could contribute to addressing these challenges in a structured, pragmatic, and prioritized fashion. Third, this paper did not perform a structured investigation into potential solution measures for the identified information sharing barriers. As sustainability assessments are already being performed at scale, both in the LIBSC and in other comparable industries, empirical investigation of solution measures could further advance understanding and cross-industry learning. Fourth, while both the Delphi panel and the interview sample for this study are comprised of experts from all relevant geographies of the LIBSC, a moderate focus on Europe cannot be neglected. As parts of the battery value chain, particularly for raw material supply, refining, and cell production, are heavily concentrated in certain geographies in Asia, Africa, and the Americas, findings and implications might vary when derived with a different regional focus. Accordingly, we encourage future research efforts with a varying geographical focus to explore whether prioritization of sustainability aspects or identified information sharing barriers would differ. Fifth, the scope of this paper was deliberately limited to the LIBSC. However, sustainability assessment and related information sharing barriers are of significant interest in many other industries. Hence, a promising and valuable research direction would be to perform a similar analysis in different sectors and compare it with the results of this study.