In order to obtain the desired cell performance, high-quality materials named battery grade, andcleanliness in all steps of the value chain is necessary [Expert N). The different rankings presented in Table 5.5 indicate how the necessity differ between the materials. The requirement of high purity materials makes the assessment regarding product supply to one of the most critical potential supply disruption for lithium-ion battery manufacturers.

The risk for unavailability of battery product supply is ranked as high for cobalt, nickel and the sep- arator. The geographical spread of cobalt refineries is wider than for the mine production. These refineries do on the other hand highly depend on the cobalt supply that originates from the D.R. of Congo, which causes an increased supply risk also for the refineries. Furthermore, Expert O, points out the supply of cobalt as the most critical question to solve in terms of material supply for lithium-ion battery manufacturers and additionally highlights the challenges to secure a local supply chain.

Lithium-ion battery manufacturers depend on unique materials and natural resources that can be supplied from only a few numbers of geographical areas. This results in a high dependency on the concerned countries, limits the flexibility in supplier selection, and affects the possibilities for inventory. The risk of increased purchase cost, delivery time, and negative social influence are higher in the cases when the material is sourced from an area exposed to geopolitical risks. The geopolitical supply risk covers the entire supply chain and the upstream activities can all affect the supply risk of material to the manufacturing facility. The risk is assessed according to the material's related political instabilities that are reviewed in Chapter 4.3.2. Input for the geopolitical risk associated with the suppliers of battery grade materials has been derived from the experts interviews. The classification of political supply risk is done according to the following criteria and presented for each material in Table 5.6.

The measurement of purchasing flexibility is over-bridging two different factors, make-or-buy opportunities and the risk associated with storage of the particular material. This is an indicator whether the purchasing company can mitigate the risk of supply disruptions by either changing the ordered material format, or by keeping the critical material in stock. The two perspectives are weighted together as one in the total ranking evaluation illustrated in Table 5.3.