With the accelerated pace of energy transition, competition in the lithium-ion battery (LIB) supply chain is intensifying across a wide scope of countries. In order to understand the potential risk derived from the competitors, this study quantifies the global competition intensities of 15 categories of LIB-related commodities, which has not been well characterized by previous criticality analysis studies. On the basis of the collected data and designed treatment techniques, the “competition index” is developed for this purpose. Here, we show that lithium hydroxides, LIBs, and lithium carbonates were the focal points of global competition in the LIB supply chain in 2019, and there will be more competition for lithium hydroxide in the future. The competition for commodities related to LIBs among Korea, Japan, and the USA are the most notable. Such insights into the global conflict potential of LIB-related commodities provide a reference for underlying competitors and corresponding transition strategies of regional industrial structures. The index developed by us complements the criticality analysis framework, which could be expanded to assess the criticality of materials relevant with other industries.

When evaluating the risks faced by a specific region, “import dependency” (or net import reliance) is often included as an indicator in the assessment system. As foreign supply is generally considered to be a riskier source than domestic supply, import dependency can provide information about the probability of the disruption of supply from foreign sources. The European Commission produces the critical raw material list for the European Union economy every three years. In their evaluation system, the evaluation of criticality is from two dimensions: supply risk and economic importance. Import reliance is one of the evaluation indicators of the supply risk dimension. (28) Nassar et al. evaluated the mineral supply risk for the manufacturing sector of the USA. The mineral supply risk is evaluated by three indicators: disruption potential, trade exposure, and economic vulnerability. The net import reliance is used to measure the trade exposure indicator. (29) Gemechu et al. evaluated the supply risk of 14 resources for countries and regions based on their corresponding import patterns. (30) Further, using cobalt as an example, they explore the importance of extending research boundaries beyond the mineral sector to the full supply chain.

We note that the industrial chain for lithium batteries involves an extensive scope of countries. When a country adjusts its production capacity in some processing stages, it will cause fluctuations in the entire global supply network. This means that even when a country reduces the competition risk for some commodities, it may increase the competition risk of other kinds of commodities more, and then, the overall competition risk that the country faces on the entire industrial chain increases instead, leading to unexpected consequences. Therefore, for either governments or companies to carry out reasonable production capacity planning, it is necessary to map the supply chain and quantify the impact of production capacity investment.

In our scenario, the added capacity in the USA would alter the capacity of LIB-related commodities in 68 countries. The overall global competition intensity has decreased slightly, with the competition index declining from 3290 to 3221. The variation in the competition intensity between regions is much more pronounced. The regional competition indexes (reflecting the total competition intensity between one country and all other countries) of China, Japan, and the USA increase by 16%, 11%, and 12%, respectively. The regional competition indexes of the other countries have different degrees of decline. Notable among them are Canada, France, and Belgium, whose competition indexes decline by 19%, 14%, and 11% respectively. Tesla’s original intentions in building the Gigafactory were to strengthen the manufacturing industry in the USA and ensure supply stability. It does reduce the competition risk of LIBs in the USA from 29 to 11. While on the other hand, since there is no domestic production capacity of NCM and NCA in the USA, the competition risk of these raw materials in the USA rises from 30 to 57, which finally leads to the deterioration of the overall competition risk faced by the USA.

Implications of such results are as follows: (1) In terms of reducing the competition risk, when countries support their domestic production capacity, the impact on themselves and the whole world is not necessarily positive. Therefore, it is essential to use quantitative tools to deduce and monitor the possible results. (2) For the LIB industry chain, any change in the supply structure at any link of the supply chain will affect a large range of countries. Therefore, in order to minimize risks, close international cooperation (such as information sharing, joint production capacity, etc.) should be promoted.