2. The battery value chain with regard to electric mobility
The value chain concept was developed by Porter and Chubin (1985) to explain the process of value creation as a system of sequential, interdependent activities within an organization. A competitive advantage is resulting from providing additional value by adding competencies and services that can be distinguished from other firms (Porter, 2010). This organization specific value chain is embedded in a system of value chains with inter-company or rather inter-value chain relationships with up- and downstream players. This extended concept thus includes all linkages between resources and actors, who can occupy one or more value-adding steps and change their share of value creation (Gereffi et al., 2005, Lazzarini et al., 2001, Zott et al., 2010).

The process of creating value in battery production integrates several steps. The chain starts with the extraction and processing of raw materials to synthesize the cathode, anode, electrolyte, separator and other cell components. Subsequently, the different components are assembled to cells which are then packed to battery stacks which are finally integrated into the vehicle (see Fig. 1) (Majeau-Bettez et al., 2011, Notter et al., 2010). The resulting battery chain underlying our study is aggregated to the four main value-adding steps raw materials, cell components, battery system and vehicle (von Delft and Leker, 2011). Although the steps of use, recharging and recycling are of high relevance for the diffusion of electric mobility (Dinger et al., 2010, Lowe et al., 2010), these steps are neglected as they are less crucial for meeting the still existing technological challenges in current battery research.

By designing the chain with regard to applying batteries in electric vehicles, the automotive, specialized battery, chemical and electronics sector seem to be the most involved actors. Different companies from these sectors are active throughout the battery value chain in one or various steps. So far, car manufacturing companies are dominating the value creation process regarding vehicles with conventional powertrains (Christensen, 2011). Due to the partial movement towards electric powertrains, mainly driven by regulations and policy instruments (Pinkse et al., 2014), engaging into the development of new technologies becomes crucial for automotive firms to not become locked in a path-dependent technological trajectory (Bohnsack et al., 2014, Orsato and Wells, 2007, Sihn et al., 2012). As battery technologies are presumably building the interface between the automotive, chemical and electronics sector, expertise from all three disciplines is required. Thus, there is a need for integrating knowledge from chemical and electronics as well as specialized battery firms regarding cell manufacturing and battery development in automobile research via collaborative approaches (Colmorn and Huelsmann, 2012, Wagner et al., 2010, Warth et al., 2012). Beyond the scope of the study at hand is the consideration of cooperating with further actors, who are e.g. involved in the energy supply and in setting up the charging infrastructure, which are crucial elements to increase the acceptance and adoption of EVs (Cherubini et al., 2014, Sierzchula et al., 2014).

6. Conclusions and outlook
The battery value chain in relation to electric mobility connects several technologies and industries. The overall increasing number of patent families and the high growth rate, particularly since 2008, is a result of high environmental awareness and policy instruments to reduce emissions. Different levels of patenting activities for the different steps of the battery value chain have been identified whereby the decreasing absolute number of patents towards the end of the chain hints at the currently high interest in R&D on individual battery materials and components. Across the value chain steps, activities combining the 2nd and 3rd step reveal by far the highest amount of patent families, pointing at the importance and difficulties of assembling (new) components into battery systems. Although only a few inventions simultaneously dealing with all steps have been patented so far, the trend towards patenting across value chain steps suggests a shift towards comprehensive R&D approaches and a shared technology base. Similar conclusions may be derived from the analysis of assignees along and across the battery value chain. On the one hand, the assignees originating from an automotive, electronics, chemical or battery background still concentrate on their core value chain step but on the other hand, registering patents including technologies of other steps and particularly patenting across steps indicates the tendency towards holistic R&D approaches covering the whole battery value chain. In summary, this explorative approach contributes to the scientific literature on patent analysis showing that an analysis according to value chain steps is able to provide detailed and valuable insights. The study additionally extends the current knowledge base on emerging industry and value chain structures associated to the field of electric mobility.

Limitations of the patent study emerge regarding the difficulty of covering every value chain step with relevant IPC codes. It has to be kept in mind that the chosen classifications cover a quite broad field, so that the total number of patent families might be biased by patents whose underlying inventions are not related to electric mobility. This is reduced via connecting the patents to the B60L11 group. The general drawback of using patents as analysis tool is that not all technological knowledge is covered by patent data as not all inventions are patentable and not all patentable innovations are really being patented, so that results can give a wrong impression of the analyzed technological area. In addition, patent counts as research output of innovative activities are not always representative for the success of the invention as its commercialization is not guaranteed. Potential measures to reduce distorting factors such as differences in the technological and economic impact of patents or in the propensity to patent across sectors are not further examined here due to the novelty of the research field. Still, patent data represents to be an adequate tool e.g. to deduce research trends and their impact on value chains.

As the explorative approach of the study at hand proves to be suitable for the area of electric mobility providing a high potential for innovation at every step, it might be applicable to examine developments in other research-intensive fields on the basis of patent classifications distinguishing value chain stages as well. To gain more detailed information e.g. on research addressing lithium-based battery technologies, combined IPC code- and keyword-based search approaches can provide further valuable scientific insights. The value chain approach presented in this paper can contribute to gain a deeper understanding of the development e.g. of processing lithium iron phosphate (LFP) to cathodes (2nd step) or of the integration of the components into a battery system (3rd step) resulting in the use within electric vehicles (4th step) via the associated patenting activities. This provides an opportunity for researchers in all stages of the value chain to see either where new applications might come from or how new materials might find their way into application.
