As the global transport sector ramps up the transition towards electromobility, the value chain of raw materials for lithium-ion battery (LIB) development is becoming crucial. Assessing the criticality of material value chains identifies potential supply risks within these value chains and can better inform battery technology development. This study uses the ESSENZ method to systematically assess eleven (11) criticality aspects of ten (10) LIB cells. The criticality scores of the LIB cells are evaluated by aggregating the criticality scores of eleven (11) constituent value chains. These criticality scores are further complemented by twelve (12) environmental midpoint impacts performed using life cycle assessments. For the value chains, cobalt dominates the criticality scores in political stability, mining capacity, trade barriers, the feasibility of exploration projects, and the occurrence of co-production. Lithium dominates the criticality scores in demand growth, concentration of reserves, concentration of production, and primary material used. Nickel dominates the criticality scores in price volatility, while natural graphite dominates the criticality scores in company concentration. We further explain in our results the reasons driving the criticalities in the value chains. For the comparative LIB cell assessment, we developed a quadrant matrix chart depicting the relative performance of the LIB cells based on their aggregated elemental criticality and environmental impact scores. This analysis identifies LIB cells with low value chain criticality and environmental scores and those that need improvements on either the criticality or the environmental impact scores. We propose a series of measures, such as the transition towards cobalt-free batteries, material efficiency improvements, and end-of-life recycling to alleviate the criticality and environmental impacts associated with these LIB cells. This research emphasizes the need to include all sustainability dimensions for comprehensive and holistic insights to positively shape the course of action towards sustainable LIB production systems.

4.1. Criticality of battery value chains and aggregate cell chemistry scores

The contribution of the aggregated score for each LIB cell and criticality category is displayed in Fig. 2. For the category of political stability, the graphite value chain drives the criticality score for the LFP and LMO cells, while cobalt is the main contributor of the criticality scores for the NMC cell variants, with added contribution from the graphite value chain. Graphite's high political (in)stability is caused by high production concentration in China, a country characterized by a high world governance indicator (WGI) score, which is an indication for unstable government [46,56]. Brazil, Mozambique, Madagascar, and India are also graphite producing countries with high WGI scores. In addition, the high political (in)stability of the cobalt value chains is due to the concentration of production in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), which is significantly affected by political conflicts and instability, leading to high WGI [57,58]. For the LMO-LTO chemistry, titanium and manganese are the main contributors to the criticality score for political stability, due to the large material quantity used in the battery cells. In addition, a significant part of the manganese's global supply originates in Gabon, China, and South Africa, characterized by high WGI value. Titanium's production is also partly concentrated in China (35% of the global production).

Lithium is driving high demand growth scores across all chemistries, followed by cobalt for cobalt-containing chemistries. Between 2016 and 2017, the demand for lithium increased by >50% due to fast development of electric vehicles (EVs) requiring specific lithium materials [59]. The demand growth scores for cobalt reduces during the transition from NMC111 to NMC811, while nickel demand grows progressively.

For the categories of concentration of reserves and production, lithium has the highest score across all chemistries. It is identified as a hotspot in the category concentration of reserves because almost half of the global reserves are in Chile, while the rest of the reserves are spread across a few countries like Australia, Argentina, China, and USA [46]. Moreover, lithium production is mostly concentrated in Australia (near 80% of the global production) [46] increasing its criticality score for concentration of production.

The risk for primary material use is dominated by lithium through all the cells due to low recycling potential of lithium at the end-of-life [37]. In addition, graphite and cobalt contribute to criticality scores in the primary material use indicator due to low recycling potentials and recoveries. Graphite has the highest impact contribution for all the chemistries within the category company concentration except for NMC-Si and LMO-LTO, which are respectively driven by silicon and copper. As concluded by [6], a major amount of graphite is produced by a small number of companies located in India, China, and Brazil, making the material a hot spot in the category.

After analyzing the results for all the cells, we can identify several main takeaways. It is important to note that graphite is a hotspot in numerous categories among all the cells excluding the NMC111-Si, which contains silicon instead of graphite in its anode. In addition, lithium is a very large contributor to the overall criticality of all the cells within the primary material use, demand growth, concentration of reserves, and production categories. Another value chain identified as critical is cobalt, which displays high criticality in most of the categories (excluding company concentration and price volatility) for all cobalt-containing cells. Cobalt demand is increasingly growing, accompanied by a high production share from DRC, a country that scores poorly in most of the indicators. It is important to note that the quantities of cobalt and lithium contained in the batteries are low compared to other metals. Thus, the higher criticality results are delivered from the higher CFs indicating restricted availability due to different socio-economic factors. The last material contributing to criticality of the chemistries is nickel, being the only dominating material within the price volatility category and partly influencing the mining capacity category. The material seemingly with the lesser impact to the overall criticality is iron, followed by aluminum.