Limited transparency on the sustainability of the lithium-ion battery supply chain (LIBSC) could impede a rapid scale-up of the electric vehicle battery ecosystem, which is required for the decarbonization of the transportation sector. A comprehensive and commonly accepted framework to assess the sustainability of this industry is currently missing. To address this research gap, a mixed-methods approach comprising a literature review, several expert interviews, two workshops, and a two-round Delphi study is conducted. 29 aspects concerning the LIBSC's sustainability are derived and prioritized according to their importance and ease of implementation. Furthermore, 30 barriers for establishing the required transparency in the LIBSC are identified. The results show that a broad range of criteria has to be incorporated to comprehensively evaluate battery sustainability. Thereby, greenhouse gas emissions, circularity indicators, and human rights and safety issues are considered the most crucial, while the least importance is attributed to economic aspects. A broad range of barriers to such assessments are identified, many of which stem from the interaction and relationships among supply chain tiers or originate at one tier and affect another upstream or downstream counterpart. Overall, the study's results indicate that assuring compliance with existing sustainability standards might be a feasible and pragmatic approach to cope with the considerable variety of important sustainability aspects. Moreover, the identified barriers imply that meaningful assessments can only be achieved via cross-tier assessments and considerable collaborations among the stakeholders of the rapidly evolving LIBSC.

To enable the transition towards a more sustainable transportation system, the lithium-ion battery supply chain (LIBSC) itself must be sustainable. However, there are salient concerns about the industry's environmental (Kumar et al., 2021), social (Sun, 2020), economic (Kumar et al., 2021), or governance (van den Brink et al., 2020) sustainability. Industry stakeholders and policy-makers are introducing holistic measures to contribute to the LIBSC's sustainable growth. For instance, the European Commission has established a regulatory framework on battery sustainability which shows how timely the subject is (European Commission, 2020b). However, what defines a sustainable LIBSC has not been conclusively investigated (Rajaeifar et al., 2022).

In simple terms, a LIB battery pack consists of battery cells, a battery management system, and a pack container with a cooling system (Thies et al., 2021). The battery cell comprises two electrodes, a separator, electrolyte, and the cell container, whereby aluminum, lithium, nickel, cobalt, manganese, copper, and graphite are the most relevant processed raw materials (Stampatori et al., 2020). The LIBSC represents a relatively young, newly created ecosystem of formerly independent industries (Weimer et al., 2019). The great number of required raw materials and considerable geographic concentration for certain value chain activities make the LIBSC comparatively complex and various conceptualizations exist (Weimer et al., 2019; Stampatori et al., 2020). For this study, based on publications by the Global Battery Alliance (2019), Thies et al. (2021), and Zhang et al. (2020), the LIBSC is described along five steps depicted in Fig. 1. Following Bonsu (2020), Fig. 1 also displays the potential circular backward flows of the battery ecosystem.

Using a mixed-methods approach, this paper derived 29 sustainability aspects for the evaluation of the LIBSC. Drawing on expert judgment, the aspects were prioritized and 30 information sharing barriers for implementing sustainability assessments in the LIBSC were identified. The study's central results are summarized in the following. First, a wide array of topics involving all four dimensions of sustainability (environmental, social, governance, and economic) should be incorporated to evaluate the LIBSC comprehensively. Second, GHG emissions, circularity aspects, and human rights and safety issues are considered the most critical, while the economic dimension received the lowest prioritization. Third, leveraging and evaluating compliance with already existing sustainability standards is regarded as a feasible approach to address the variability and complexity of sustainability aspects in the LIBSC. Fourth, while the identified information sharing barriers reflect an equally broad range, many of them revolve around the interactions, interdependencies, and relationships between the various supply chain actors in the rapidly involving LIB ecosystem.