As electricity production decarbonizes via the deployment of solar, wind, geothermal, and nuclear power, almost the entire CO emissions of an electric vehicle (EV) will eventually be associated with its manufacturing, i.e., embodied emissions. Some work has been done over the last decade to study the embodied emission breakdown of EVs. For example, Volkswagen recently claimed that they need to emit 2.5x more CO to manufacture an EV compared to an internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicle. To minimize this impact, different groups are working on decarbonizing the production of various materials, including steel and aluminum. However, little work is focused on decarbonizing the EV battery supply chain.

When EVs use electricity derived from wind, solar, geothermal, nuclear, and hydro power plants built from decarbonized steel,' aluminum,and concrete, the carbon emissions from driving an EV become even lower. At that point, deeply decarbonized power (ultra-low "CO, OPEX" for EVs) makes it so that the EV's entire CO, footprint is in its embodied emissions (its "CO CAPEX"). Technological solutions to decarbonize the power grid are mature and major banks know how to finance solar and wind power plants because they've already been doing it for decades. The lithium, nickel, cobalt, and other materials that make up the EV's battery all carry a carbon footprint for mining, processing, and cathode material manufacturing, and there are now people working on decarbonizing those supply chains. Decarbonizing the manufacturing of the battery and the production of the materials that make up the battery are the final frontier of deep decarbonization.

LIB industry professionals will note the cathode chemistry assumed in the Argonne model. NMC111 1s a low nickel cathode material made from LiCO3. Yet, many market forecasts expect that higher nickel content cathode materials like NMC 811 or ")XXX" will become more popular in EVs in the 2020s because they have higher energy density, which is important for extending the range of EVs. This is a development which requires an updated model because this cathode material uses different proportions of metals, different quantities of energy, and notably does not use LizCO3. Instead, lithium hydroxide (LOH • H2O) is used to make these materials. This is a different lithium chemical, made through different manufacturing processes. Moreover, lithium hydroxide is often made from different kinds of natural resources compared to how LizCO, is traditionally made.

How does LiOH • H2O affect lithium's share of CO emissions in LIB manufacturing? How does the type of natural resource mined for producing LiOH • H2O compared to conventional LizCO3 sources affect the COz footprint? This is important to EV and LIB industries, not just for minimizing embodied emissions of manufacturing, but also for reducing costs (from fossil fuels). In addition, new LiOH• H2O producers may struggle to sell into markets with mandates to reduce carbon footprints throughout the value chain (e.g. the EU). All this with the backdrop of potentially massive fines for auto manufacturers for high CO intensity vehicle fleets (which can be mitigated by selling electric vehicles).® Volkswagen is already taking this topic seriously, committing to their "gotozero" campaign for EVs. The CO intensity of the 2020s' LiOH •H2O supply chain has not been studied until now, which is different to what was considered in the Argonne LCA of supply chains in the 2010s.

From the 1990s to the 2010s, most lithium was extracted from brine resources in South America using evaporation, mainly producing LizCO3, not LiOH • H2O. That changed in the 2010s as the Chinese EV revolution kicked off and Tesla emerged with its compelling product offerings. Demand for EVs exploded in China in the last 10 years because of subsidies and air quality concerns in Chinese cities, and EVs are proving to be a compelling choice for consumers world-wide. This caused a 2010s Chinese-dominated "lithium rush". Due to the complexities, and long, unpredictable lead-times of deploying evaporation pond brine projects and the (at the time) unavailability of new technologies to produce lithium from different kinds of brines, lithium companies and their customers were unable to source from South America fast enough to meet the country's new demand.

Major lithium producers like Ganfeng, Albemarle, SQM, and Tiangi have turned to spodumene "hard rock" deposits in Australia, which are a fundamentally very different kind of lithium resource requiring very different extraction technology. Hard rock resources involve tried-and-true mechanical mining (ex. digging, explosions, crushing, etc.), high carbon intensity roasting steps, and a hydrometallurgical leaching process. Cheap coal, natural gas, and chemicals are available in China to make this process route economic in a high lithium price environment. The industry goal in the 2010s was to meet Chinese demand, not to have low CO, intensity lithium supply. This "lithium rush" has moved the world's lithium production center of gravity to China, where the hard rock resources predominantly come from Australia. This model is being replicated elsewhere alongside small streams of LiOH • H2O production from brine producers made via LizCO3. Quantifying the CO, intensities of these LiOH • H2O products made in China and elsewhere is important for pursuing the final frontier of deep decarbonization so we can understand which process routes emit the least COz.

We developed an LCA model and data structure tailored specially for the lithium industry in collaboration with Robert Pell at Minviro. Using Alex and David's knowledge of lithium extraction processes and markets, and Robert's deep background in LCA calculations, we developed a model that can calculate the CO, impact of any lithium product using any extraction or refining process, operating or proposed. The quality of any LCA is dependent on the quality of the input data used like fossil fuel consumption, reagent consumption, water consumption, and other inputs, so efforts were made to collect the most dependable data available from across the lithium industry, cross-checking with impact data published by lithium companies.

The Minviro Lithium LCA uses well-established procedures and methods governed by specific rules and standards, most notably those developed by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). The ReCiPe Midpoint Hierarchist method was applied in this LCA to translate emissions and resource extractions into a limited number of environmental impact scores.

To be clear, EVs containing LIBs made from high COz intensity LiOH • H2O hopefully save significantly on CO, emissions over the life of an EV compared to ICEs. However, just because the

Australian spodumene-Chinese conversion LiOH • H2O supply chain was developed to meet demand in a 2010s "lithium rush", doesn't mean that such high COz intensity (and high cost) approaches should be deployed further as the lithium market grows.