Li-ion batteries (LIBs) can reduce carbon emissions by powering electric vehicles (EVs) and promoting renewable energy development with grid-scale energy storage. However, LIB production and electricity generation still heavily rely on fossil fuels at present, resulting in major environmental concerns. Are LiBs as environmentally friendly and sustainable as expected at the current stage? In the past 5 years, a skyrocketing growth of the EV market has been witnessed. LiBs have garnered huge attention from academia, industry, government, non-governmental organizations, investors, and the general public. Tremendous volumes of LIBs are already implemented in EVs today, with a continuing, exponential growth expected for the years to come. When LIBs reach their end-of-life in the next decades, what technologies can be in place to enable second-life or recycling of batteries? Herein, life cycle assessment studies are examined to evaluate the environmental impact of LiBs, and EVs are compared with internal combustion engine vehicles regarding environmental sustainability. To provide a holistic view of the LIB development, this Perspective provides insights into materials development, manufacturing, recycling, legislation and policy, and beyond. Last but not least, the future development of LiBs and charging infrastructures in light of emerging technologies are envisioned.

The development of LIBs needs to be driven in a more sustainable direction to satisfy the rising energy demand and simultaneously meet the criteria for net-zero carbon emissions. In this regard, it is crucial to assess the environmental impact and energy consumption of LiBs throughout the life cycle. Cathodes are a critical component of batteries and contribute considerably to the production cost of LIBs. At present, cathodes still rely on scarce metals substantially, such as Ni and Co. These metals are less favorable in the cathode market due to their limited reserves and high price. Advancement of LIBs at the cathode materials level is required to balance sustainability, cost, and performance. More practical factors in industrial manufacturing need to be considered upon the commercialization of research-level materials and designs. Reliable LIB manufacturing requires the support from a robust supply chain. Evaluating the global LIB supply chain and manufacturing is critical to comprehend LIB development. In addition, massive LIBs will reach their end-of-life in the foreseeable future, given the substantial and increasing number of EVs around the world. Processing, repurposing, and recycling of these used batteries will be a pressing topic. Developing recycling technologies that are both economically and environmentally favorable can largely enhance the sustainability of LIBs. Recycling can in turn reduce the energy consumption and emissions during the virgin battery production. Furthermore, government policies and legislation can have a significant impact on the supply chain, manufacturing, and recycling of LIBs. Here, we systematically evaluate the environmental impact of LIBs, cathode chemistry, battery manufacturing and supply chain, battery recycling, and government policies regarding their roles in the sustainable development of LIBs. Last but not least, we conceive a visionary scheme for future LIB development and charging infrastructure construction.

More practical factors beyond materials design need to be considered in industrial manufacturing, such as supply chain and battery pack manufacturing. The LIB supply chain can be tracked back to the extraction and processing of raw minerals.

A volatile supply chain or inefficient manufacturing may offset the performance benefit promoted by electrode materials. The mining and processing of LIB raw materials are more scattered across the world, compared with the procedures of fossil fuels (Figure 3). The uneven distribution of essential raw minerals may potentially give rise to geopolitical challenges and impact the global LIB industry. For example, Ni is a predominant metal in commercial cathodes for LIBs. Russia is one of the major countries that extract and refine Ni mines (Figure 3a,b). Due to the Russia-Ukraine war, the price of Ni almost doubled within one week from late February to early March in 2022.35al The IEA reported that the total battery cost could increase by 6% if the prices of Ni or Li were doubled. 4 Contemporary Amperex Technology Co. Ltd. (CATL), the largest LIB manufacturer in the world, has announced to raise prices for some battery products due to raw materials cost increase. 4) Accordingly, some EV companies, such as Tesla, Rivian, and BYD, have raised the prices of their EVs due to the increasing supply chain cost. 4) Therefore, evaluating the global supply chain and manufacturing capability is vital to gaining a comprehensive understanding and reasonable forecast of LIB development.
