The purpose of this report is to outline and discuss the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Energy
Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EERE)'s findings related to EERE's Request for Information (RFI) on
Battery Critical Materials Supply Chain Research & Development (R&D) and the EERE R&D Battery Critical
Materials Supply Chain Workshop. The United States has committed to achieving 50% or more reduction of
greenhouse gas pollution by 2030, with a long-term goal to completely decarbonize the U.S. economy by
2050, and to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius (The White House, 2021a). The clean energy
technologies that will facilitate the realization of these goals require a substantial amount of critical minerals
and materials, but these currently have limited production pathways and supply chains risks. To better
understand the nature of the problem and develop solutions to facilitate improvements in this industry, EERE
solicited feedback and input from subject matter experts and industrial stakeholders.

The RFI was issued on June 29, 2020, to solicit feedback from industry, academia, research laboratories,
government agencies, and other stakeholders on the challenges and opportunities in the upstream and
midstream critical battery materials supply chains (DOE, 2020a). There was specific interest in information on
raw minerals production, along with the refining and processing of cathode materials such as cobalt, lithium,
manganese, and nickel. Subsequently, the workshop was held in December 2020, and it featured three days of
focused discussions on matters related to lithium, nickel, and cobalt supply security, as well as cathode
manufacturing, with an overarching goal of creating a diverse, domestic battery supply chain in the next five
years. There was a particular focus on the current state of the battery cathode materials supply chains and gaps
in and opportunities for both near-term and long-term R&D. Both the RFI and the workshop were coordinated
by EERE's Advanced Manufacturing Office (AMO), in collaboration with its Geothermal Technologies Office
(GTO) and Vehicles Technologies Office (V TO).

The major themes identified in the report are resource characterization, technology, energy, and chemical
intensity, scale-up, economics, and environment. Key takeaways discussed include the need for opportunities
to validate technologies at the pilot scale; increased connectivity across the supply chain; and developing a
strategy that prioritizes resource diversification. The report finds that a major challenge restraining the
extraction and processing of lithium from brine and hard rock resource is the limited scale-up investment into
deployment-ready technologies for separation and purification. Therefore, making R&D funding available can
go a long way to de-risk new technologies, reduce the cost of capital, and improve overall project economics.
Process intensification and energy integration can improve the energy and chemical intensity of lithium
extraction, while repartitioning the lithium brine value chain can enable a degree of vertical integration from
resource owners to technology providers.

The input from the RFI and workshop also indicated that nickel and cobalt supply security require a strategy
that prioritizes resource diversification since projected secondary streams from end-of-life batteries could
become a significant domestic source for both resources. Therefore, funding opportunities for both early-stage
R&D and high technology readiness level (TRL) technology transitions for primary and recycled resource
processing will strengthen U.S domestic manufacturing and reduce dependence on foreign sources of critical
materials. Additionally, resource purity is of significant concern with nickel or cobalt making separation and
purification technologically challenging. Thus, R&D directed at reducing processing costs — from pre-
treatment to refining — can lead to economically competitive solutions.

The cathode manufacturing industry anticipates a shift towards nickel-rich cathodes followed by a transition
towards cobalt-free chemistries, although long-term agreements for cobalt supply coupled with increasing
lithium-ion battery demand will continue to make cobalt an important commodity. The industry also expects
new anode materials to include hybrid graphite/silicon, as well as anodes based on metallic lithium, foils, and
films. With newer lithium sources, clear definitions of the purity requirements for different stages of precursor
material are needed, as well as which forms of impurities are more critical than others. Such definitions are an

important step in developing standards for domestic cathode manufacturing. Lack of clear definitions
effectively represent barriers and risk. Funding for early-stage technology performance and increased
connectivity across the supply chain can overcome these key barriers and de-risk future investment in
technology scale-up, which can attract R&D investment.

Input from the workshop will inform the development of the R&D roadmap as part of implementation of A
Federal Strategy to Ensure Secure and Reliable Supplies of Critical Minerals. This will also facilitate strategic
planning and forecasting that will inform future directions in EERE programs to include R&D funding
opportunities, prizes, awards, and partnerships. EERE will continue to coordinate and collaborate with
stakeholders in battery critical material supply chains to address the risks and capitalize on the opportunities
identified in this and other reports.