Cobalt plays a significant role across nearly all of these cathodes. The metal improves battery safety by increas- ing thermal stability and increases energy density to add to lithium-ion batteries' lifespan and capacity. These benefits, however, come at the expense of political risks as well as environmental, social, and governance (ESG) reputational risks. Two-thirds of global cobalt production occurs in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), a country that has historically been susceptible to poor resource governance and the practice of artisanal mining, known for unsafe conditions and the use of child labor. Moreover, Chinese investors control 70 percent of the DRC's mining sector and China itself refines 80 percent of global cobalt supply, making the metal a significant source of political risk as the geopolitical tensions of the energy transition unfold, tributing to low levels of liquidity and making its retrieval uneconomical if prices are not sufficiently high. As econ- omies of scale develop in already-concentrated cobalt supply chains, the prospect of adding alternative sources of supply will face high barriers to entry and little chance of cost-competitiveness.

Also of note is manganese, another critical mineral as listed by the US Geological Survey. Manganese, like nickel, is a metal where batteries are an afterthought within primary demand: manganese's principal use is in steelmaking, accounting for roughly 90 percent of total manganese demand.27 China is dominant in manganese as well, con- trolling 93 percent of global refining.28 Power shortages in China at the end of 2021, however, disrupted that supply chain, leaving European manganese users facing an acute supply crunch.

Optimizing existing and deployed technologies in line with supply chain realities can offer the path of least resistance to reduce the critical mineral intensity of lithium-ion batter- ies. The most pressing agenda item for the battery indus- try will be reducing the intensity of particularly problematic minerals, chiefly cobalt and graphite.

New cathode materials have the potential to resolve indus- try's most conspicuous supply chain governance and resil- ience challenge. Reductions in cobalt intensity for the dominant lithium-ion cathode, nickel-magnesium-cobalt (NMC), are being deployed now. For example, LG's NMC 811 is a cathode material containing eight parts nickel and one part each of cobalt and magnesium. In contrast, other NMCs contain equal parts of the three metals or three parts nickel and one part each of cobalt and magnesium. NMC 811 is being used in General Motor's new Hummer EV and Tesla's Chinese Model 3. Ultium Cells, a joint venture of LG Energy Solutions and GM, makes a battery used in GM's other EVs that reduces the need for both cobalt and magnesium—another critical mineral—in the cathode even further, with seventeen parts nickel for one part each of cobalt, magnesium, and aluminum, reducing cobalt and magnesium by 70 percent.30 Cobalt-free batteries, such as LFP (lithium-iron-phosphate) batteries, also offer a less min- eral-intense version of a lithium-ion configuration and often are less expensive than their NMC counterparts, though at the cost of reduced energy density and therefore storage capacity concerns such as EV driving range.

An immediate opportunity to improve the sustainability of clean energy value chains will be the expansion of battery material inputs to a range of materials that require less envi- ronmentally intensive production processes. Much of this benefit can be achieved courtesy of the wide availability of alternative battery metals such as salt, sulfur, silicon, or calcium—which are not only less of a sustainability concern than traditional battery materials such as cobalt, but also can be more readily integrated into the battery supply chain through their retrieval as by-products from existing mining activity, thereby mitigating land use concerns.

A corollary to the sustainability benefits of a wider array of mineral inputs into the battery supply chain is the expan- Sion of potential sourcing of battery minerals from part- ners with stronger mechanisms for market governance and greater sustainability credentials. Here, the easy integra- tion of best-in-class mining industries in the United States, Canada, Australia, and others will improve supplies of sus- tainably mined minerals—not necessarily on a cost-cost comparison with existing mineral supply chains, but by offering alternative markets in which those supply chains can develop.