This research utilizes case study methodology based on longitudinal interviews over a decade coupled with secondary data sources to juxtapose Tesla with two high-profile past mega-projects in the electric transportation industry, EV-1 and Better Place. The theory of constraints serves as a lens to identify production and market bottlenecks for the dissemination of electric vehicles. The valuable lessons learned from EV1 failure and Better Place bankruptcy paved the way for Tesla’s operations strategy to build gigafactories which bears a resemblance to Ford T mass production last century. Specifically, EV1 relied on external suppliers to develop batteries, while Better Place was dependent on a single manufacturer to build cars uniquely compatible with its charging infrastructure, whereas Tesla established a closed-loop, green, vertically integrated supply chain consisting of batteries, electric cars and charging infrastructure to meet its customers evolving needs. The analysis unveils several limitations of the Tesla business model which can impede its worldwide expansion, such as utility grid overload and a shortage of raw material, which Tesla strives to address by innovating advanced batteries and further extending its vertically integrated supply chain to the mining industry. The study concludes by sketching fruitful possible avenues for future research.

Three transportation mega-projects, EV1 [1], Better Place [2], and recently Tesla [3] represent market encroachment attempts to meet the sustainability standards of the 21st century. It should be acknowledged that other projects exist too, but these three are well documented in the academic literature and received high publicity on media outlets because they encompassed the political agenda and were driven by charismatic leadership, as will be elaborated. The companies’ executives embarked on a campaign to make the transition not only in their regional areas but also in the global industrial economy. Specifically, at the end of 2018, Tesla sold its 500,000th car and on March, 2020 produced its one millionth car. The link between projects stems from the fact that Tesla learned valuable lessons from their antecedents for failure and bankruptcy. Specifically, EV1 relied on external suppliers to develop inefficient batteries, while Better Place was dependent on Renault to manufacture cars uniquely compatible with its charging infrastructure, whereas Tesla established a closed-loop, green, vertically integrated supply chain consisting of batteries, electric cars and charging infrastructure, which innovatively adapts to the market.

In June 2020, Tesla surpassed GM (General Motors), Ford and BMW to rank as the world’s most valuable car manufacturer in the stock market [4]. Recently, Long et al. [5] found evidence that 40% of consumers perceive Tesla positively as representative for the future brand of battery electric vehicle because of its stylish, innovative and economic benefits that can shadow loyalty to traditional combustion engine brands. Tesla’s vehicle registrations in California were up almost 63% during the fourth quarter of 2020 compared with the fourth quarter of 2019.
Nevertheless, challenges in meeting its long-term ambitious production goals have rendered concern among analysts. This scenario can have a negative impact on the willingness of future policy entrepreneurs worldwide to embark on large-scale mega-projects and invest in developing the infrastructure to support and enable electric drive cars [6]. Therefore, this study juxtaposes Tesla’s supply chain infrastructure with two past mega-projects in the USD 500 million electric car industry, namely EV1 in California, and Better Place in Israel. The goal is to assess the technological development of the electric car infrastructure over the last three decades and show how Tesla derived valuable lessons by the adaptation of the Ford T mass production philosophy to sustainable transportation [7].
The theory of constraints [8] reveals a problem common to past projects: overestimated forecasts of the demand for electric cars, despite marketing efforts to attract customers with servicizing models [9], such as pay-per-mile plans and battery leases [10]. In the case of EV1, the bottleneck for the dissemination of electric cars was pre-mature battery technology which limited the traveling range, a traditional constraint which has been delaying the movement to electrify transportation for over a century [11]. To overcome this bottleneck, Better Place built an infrastructure of battery switching stations to expand traveling distance, but encountered a new bottleneck, low sales (market demand) due to electric cars’ cost being not competitive compared to the equivalent combustion engine car. Both projects ended up suffering from similar inefficiencies such as over-investment in the development of their charging infrastructures, rapid expansion, and non-accurate forecasts of the demand for electric cars despite marketing efforts to attract consumers with leasing business models.

In 2007, Israeli entrepreneur Shai Agassi introduced the public company Better Place to sell electric cars. One is of its goals was to reduce Israel’s dependence on oil [32]. Initially, the company planned its main infrastructure deployment target to be in Israel. The second location that Better Place chose for its deployment was Denmark, who has a similar culture of innovation to Israel [33], and Denmark’s electrical grid is partially powered by wind in cogeneration with fossil fuels [34]. Better Place installed 17 out of 20 planned stations across Denmark. The company started exploring further expansion attempts to Hawaii and Australia. The company’s last foray was in China, where it was negotiating with a Chinese car manufacturer to establish a compatible battery infrastructure.
Better Place modeled its pricing on the cell phone industry, so customers were offered plans in which they chose memberships based on the number of miles they expected to drive [2]. Exceeding that mileage number incurred an extra cost. The customers also leased the batteries, so the company could reduce the price of the car and recycle the batteries more effectively.

Interestingly, Better Place embarked on an innovation of reverse supply chain network for batteries. According to Better Place senior system architects: “Rather than trying to charge the batteries on the go, Better Place established stations where the entire battery could be swapped for a new one. The battery was located in the bottom of the specially designed car and had a hold-and-release mechanism. When the car entered the service bay, a robot removed the depleted battery and substituted a fully charged one. This process took about five minutes, about as long as it takes to fill up a car with gas. Stations would have approximately 40 batteries in inventory each. Most stations would have one lane, but some in high-traffic areas would have two.”

Building such an infrastructure required collaboration with Renault to meticulously architect a car with the battery located in an accessible spot for swapping. This over-specification made the infrastructure incompatible with other car manufacturers [35].

The new administration in the United States which prioritizes the environmental agenda linked to global warming and climate change may be supportive of Tesla’s need for tax breaks, loans, etc., in order to expand its closed loop supply chain of batteries, EV and charging infrastructure. Under the Green Act tax incentive for renewable energy, the electric vehicle credit cap for manufacturers is going to expand from 200,000 to 600,000 cars. As Tesla passed the 200,000-vehicle threshold, 400,000 additional consumers in the United States may become eligible to gain a tax credit of USD 7000. Additionally, the government announced a plan to replace the federal fleet with electric vehicles made in America. As discussed in this study, Tesla’s investment in the mining industry to acquire battery materials as well as its line of products to repurpose degraded batteries powered by solar panels to energize home appliances creates a vertically integrated supply chain of American products that helps to create green collar jobs.
Although Tesla controls a major segment of the electric car market, a limitation of the current study methodology which should be acknowledged is that it did not review other manufacturers. In order to address this gap, Table 3 provides list of competitors with notable specs such as traveling distance, which future studies should track to assess whether their sales grow to threaten Tesla’s dominancy. The abbreviations interpretation are: all-wheel drive (AWD), rear-wheel drive (RWD), and front-wheel drive (FWD).