Based on the goal and scope definition, the life cycle inventories are created for the three battery types and their respective supply chains. The life cycle inventories are fundamentally based on [19]. The composition Of the battery cells is based on the BatPac 5.0 model [15]. Within the models for the battery types, the functional unit is considered so that the material flows, especially from the component production to the cell production, can be derived. For the composition and energy demand of the positive active materials, the GREET 2021 model is used, whereas, for the negative active material, the inventories of Engels et al. are applied as the basis. 

Furthermore, the materials and energy flow data for components and cell production are derived from [22—25]. The activities of the raw material extraction and processing are based on the ecoinvent database, except for the lithium hydroxide routes, which are based on Schenker et al. and Chordia et al. [26,27]. These studies include data for specific locations for lithium extraction and processing and can thus provide more detailed insights into the influence Of supplier selection based on the location.

The activities created based on the global production shares define the baseline scenario. Furthermore, three scenarios with adapted supply chains are investigated in more detail. In the first scenario, the influence of the location on the battery cell production is analyzed. For this purpose, it is assumed that the battery cells are produced to 100% in one of the countries depicted in Figure 2, leading to eight different supply chains to be assessed. A similar approach is applied in the second scenario, where the locations are changed to those countries currently producing the positive active materials. In the case of NMC811, the countries or regions are China, South Korea, Japan, Europe, and others. For NCA, the producing countries are Japan, South Korea, China, and others, while LFP is produced in China, Canada, and the USA [29,30]. The last scenario investigates the influence of different production routes for lithium hydroxide. The three routes reflect the production in Australia, Chile, and China.

For the baseline scenario, the results show that the LFP battery is favorable from an environmental perspective, while the supply chain of the NCA battery has the highest environmental indicator scores. In terms of cost, the LFP seems also favorable. However, for two of three investigated social impact categories, the NCA battery has the lowest indicator scores, while the NMC811 battery has the highest indicator scores. These findings underline the possible trade-offs between impact categories of different sustainability dimensions. Furthermore, the results show that there could also be trade-offs between the impact categories of one dimension, as shown for the social dimension in the baseline scenario. Besides, the investigated scenarios have shown that the locations can significantly influence the results of all three sustainability dimensions, whereby the effect can vary depending on the considered locations and processes. Consequently, these results highlight that it is necessary to select the supplier with caution, for example, to comply with the mentioned legal regulations.