Electric vehicles (EVs) are a growing part of the passenger vehicle industry due to improved technology, customer interest in reducing carbon footprints, and policy incentives. EV batteries are the key determinant of both the range and cost of the vehicle. This paper explains the importance of EV batteries, describes the structure of the EV battery supply chain, examines current limitations in trade data for EV batteries, and estimates the value added to EV batteries for EVs sold in the United States.

Cells are classified under statistical reporting number 8507.90.8000 (battery parts) of the Harmonized Tariff System of the United States (HTSUS or HTS). 22 Most cells for lithium-ion batteries in EVs in the United States tend to be imported, but U.S. cell production will increase as Tesla's Gigafactory continues to come online 23 Although Japan and South Korea are major cell manufacturers, 84 percent of lithium-ion cell production will be in the United States or China by 2020, which would be a 20-percent increase from 2016, based on announced production expansions in the United States and China. 

EV battery packs are the final stage of EV battery production. Battery packs consist of battery modules, electrical connections, and cooling equipment. Manufacturers can assemble them by hand or by using automated equipment. Based on recent estimates, about 14 percent of the total cost of a finished lithium-ion battery pack comes from the pack stage of production.29 Battery manufacturers design EV battery packs for specific vehicle models, and tend to assemble them near the vehicle assembly plant. For example, AESC assembles battery packs in Tennessee and Sunderland, England relatively close to the plants that assemble Nissan Leafs (figure 4).

Battery packs, unlike cells and modules, are classified in the international Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System (HS) under tariff-classification subheading 8507.60, along with all other lithium-ion batteries 3ยบ The United States has a specific statistical reporting number for imports of lithium-ion batteries for use in vehicles (HTS 8507.60.0010), but imports under that classification may also include modules and packs.

Because of the lithium-ion battery's complex supply chain, international trade data are a complicated puzzle to understand. Lithium-ion batteries for EVs are categorized in an HS 6-digit subheading (8507.60) that includes lithium-ion batteries for all uses, with separate statistical suffixes for batteries for EVs versus all other uses. But different stages of the lithium-ion battery supply chain seem to be imported under both statistical suffixes, as well as an additional HTS 8- digit subheading (8507.90.80). This section explores the available trade data.

It is possible that some other battery type that packs more energy per pound will be developed in the future, but until then, lithium-ion batteries will be the most important part of an EV. As EVs take an increasing share of motor vehicle sales, the battery supply chain will become increasingly important. Understanding the supply chain can help businesses and governments understand how trade flows and resources will be affected by increased demand for EVs and thus, their inputs.

China and the United States appear to be the largest suppliers of lithium-ion battery cells in the future, with competition from Japan and South Korea.54 Moreover, since cells are more easily imported/exported longer distances, they are likely to continue to be internationally traded.

Conversely, due to the higher cost of transporting battery packs, international trade in EV battery packs is likely to remain low compared to trade in battery cells. Vehicle manufacturers' decisions about where to produce EVs (and in what quantities) are likely to be the primary determinants in lithium-ion battery module and pack production locations.

Due mostly to the lack of more detailed international trade data for lithium-ion batteries, it is challenging to separate out information from components of the battery supply chain. However, based on the authors' estimates, the United States and Japan appear to provide the most valueadded to lithium-ion batteries used in EVs sold in the United States. Much of the estimated U.S.

value comes from pack assembly. Based on this research, due to China's high level of sales of domestically produced EVs with domestically produced batteries and cells, China likely accounts for the vast majority of the value added from lithium-ion batteries in Chinese EV sales and is likely the world leader in value added for EV batteries.