Additional Policy Objectives of the Tax Credits The IRA includes more than just consumer tax credits, as it also attempts to achieve other objectives. Understanding them requires coming to grips with what the US government perceived as the initial, pre-IRA economic and policy equilibrium, as well as the domestic political-economic forces that would make the green energy transition policy sustainable and not subject to a political reversal of the sort that took place in 2017, when President Donald Trump pulled the United States out of the Paris Agreement.

The United States has a large, legacy ICE automobile industry. As ICE vehicles and EVs involve some different corporate players, as well as different inputs in their a transition from one to the other puts hundreds of thousands of jobs at risk (Klier and Rubenstein 2022; Hanson 2023). Many of these at-risk jobs are in politically important swing states, such as Michigan and Ohio, where they affect communities that suffered disproportionately large economic losses since 2001—a period that coincides with the "China shock" (Autor, Dorn, and Hanson 2021). Whatever the source of the shock, the failure of workers and communities to adjust continues to play an outsized role in policy discussions—unsurprisingly, given the effectiveness with which Donald Trump weaponized it during the 2016 presidential campaign and while in office.

The US perception of the pre-IRA equilibrium was that it was dominated by China, which subsidized EVs. Beijing had prioritized the sector as part of its highly controversial "Made in China 2025" industrial policy program announced in 2015. China's supply-side policies for batteries were also alleged to discriminate in favor of indigenous firms.7 Finally, its import tariffs were high, providing firms that produced locally protection from foreign competition. (In game-theoretic terms, if the rivalry were modeled as a prisoner's dilemma, China was already playing noncooperatively; if it were a Stackelberg game, China already had a first-mover advantage.)