Over one hundred years ago electric cars were a common sight on the city streets of Europe and the United States. An American — Thomas Davenport — is credited with building the first electric vehicle (EV) in 1835, and by 1900 EVs were so popular that New York had a fleet of electric taxis and electric cars representing one third of all vehicles on the road (indeed, it was claimed the Fritchle electric car could travel 100 miles on a single charge). When Henry Ford introduced the mass-produced and gas-powered Model T in 1908 it symbolized the end of the age of the electric car until its recent revival. This technological "rediscovery" is already having a revolutionary impact on the automotive industry ecosystem as players scramble to revise business strategies, develop new technologies, and reconfigure global supply chains and manufacturing footprints while trying to secure access to battery raw materials.

The electric vehicle (EV) revolution is ushering in a golden age for battery raw materials, best reflected by a dramatic increase in price for two key battery commodities - lithium and cobalt - over the past 24 months. In addition, the growing need for energy storage, e-bikes, electrification of tools, and other battery-intense applications is further increasing the interest in these commodities. However, the recent concerns regarding the future of the raw material supply availability for batteries and the impact of rising commodity prices on battery production costs have highlighted risks that may create divergent futures for these two commodities. The strategic response needed will likely differ across industry players such as automotive OEMs, battery manufacturers, mining and refining companies, and financial investors; for all players there is a growing imperative to understand the complexities and dynamics of this rapidly changing market and to ensure that their strategies are robust in the face of future uncertainties.

Both the lithium and cobalt markets have historically been driven by battery demand - primarily from consumer electronics - representing 40 percent and 25 percent of demand respectively in 2017. However, the growing adoption of EVs and need for EV batteries with higher energy densities will see the demand for lithium increase more than threefold from 214 kt to 669 kt LCE' between 2017 and 2025, whereas cobalt will increase by 60 percent from 136 kt to 222 kt over the same period in McKinsey's base case outlook. This forecast assumes that Li-ion battery technologies will be the prevalent battery technology for the foreseeable future.