The aim of this research is to identify and explore the UK electric vehicle (EV) battery industry’s supply chain strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats (SWOT) by taking a leading UK EV battery company as an exploratory case study. Our research addresses the gap in knowledge surrounding the UK EV battery supply chain, as the current literature is limited whilst demands for EVs are surging. There are significant opportunities awaiting the EV battery industry, though it is crucial that companies are aware of the threats facing them. To address the gap, this research followed an exploratory qualitative research design using semi-structured interviews with experienced interviewees in the industry. By applying the SWOT analysis framework and the theory lens of Resource Based View (RBV), we suggest that the UK EV battery industry should diversify its supply base into multiple regions such as India, Africa, and the US, which would reduce the reliance on sourcing from China whilst maintaining good supplier relationships and continuous innovation.

Chinese suppliers have also been identified as playing a significant role in the Lithium-Ion battery supply chain [40], suggesting a potential reliance and control issue for electric battery manufacturers. There are further potential major supply chain issues regarding electric battery production that can be identified from the literature. Curry [41] highlighted an upcoming shortage of production capacity for battery components, such as separators, as the growth in EV sales in China is beginning to create supply bottlenecks.

Curry [41] suggested a potential strategy for battery manufacturers, highlighting the need for companies to: (1) Improve profit margins to attract new investment; (2) Improve technology to reduce production costs; (3) Enter the stationary storage market to increase market share. Stages 1 and 2 are most applicable to this research as its main focus is on automotive applications. Profit margins could be increased by engaging with lower-cost suppliers, and technology could be improved by investing further in R&D by developing technical partnerships. Recent developments in Lithium-Ion battery technology has involved light-weighting and improving energy density [30], but there is still further progress to be made.

As a result of coding the transcribed interviews, the following patterns and trends became evident in the data, namely: locations of key suppliers, cost, ethics and sustainability, infrastructure, external events, technology, supply, demand, lead times and timescales. Codes relating to design issues and supplier maturity related more to internal factors, hence their classification as Weaknesses. Codes relating to supply chain locations and increases in the quantity of parts available can be seen as external factors, which is why they have been categorised as Opportunities. This is the same for Strengths, which are deemed internal, and Threats which are considered external issues.

Strengths in collaboration within supply chain (COL) can be linked to Opportunities to expand supply chain locations (SCL) as Company X’s ability to collaborate with multiple suppliers within its supply chain provides an opportunity to expand its supply chain locations further afield. This is supported by Kalaitzi et al. [14] who highlighted supplier-led collaborations as an opportunity for EV battery companies. Considering that Company X has already capitalised on this (as it is a strength rather than an opportunity), this suggests that the company holds some competitive advantage over other companies within the industry.
Strengths in the UK and European supply chain (USC and ESC) and opportunities to increase in timescale availability (TIM+) are also linked because, in general, parts ordered from European and UK suppliers have a much shorter lead time than those from Asia. Therefore, Company X has the opportunity to decrease lead times on various parts and increase timescale availability for production.

Through a review of the literature, it was highlighted that an existing strength of the EV industry is the rapidly increasing demand (DEM+) for EV batteries, as forecasts suggested [1,3]. This was confirmed during the interviews conducted for this research. Furthermore, Andwari et al. [28] identified an opportunity on cost reduction in battery parts and manufacturing, which also supports the findings of this research. A strengths increase in demand for batteries (DEM+) has been linked to an opportunities decrease in the cost of parts (COS-) and an increase in the supply of parts (SUP+) because through an increase in demand for EV batteries, Company X has the opportunity to place larger orders with suppliers which in turn encourages lower costs per unit and increases the supply of parts to the market.