Lithium-ion batteries (LIBs) power electric vehicles (EVs) and nearly all consumer electronics. Consumers demand EVs for their potential to reduce carbon dioxide (COz) emissions and other pollutants released by conventional vehicles (with internal combustion engines, ICE). In addition, EV demand growth partly reflects LIB cost improvements in the global supply chain for key LIB materials, battery technology innovations, and government incentives to defray costs (Scott and Ireland, forthcoming).

Previous research has examined the importance of EV batteries (particularly LIBs) and their inputs, as well as the structure of the global EV battery supply chain. Coffin and Horowitz (2018) note the supply chain for EVs is similar to traditional internal combustion engine (ICE) passenger vehicles, however unlike ICE passenger vehicles which compete based on engine and transmission, EVs compete based on their battery types. The most common LIB composition for EVs is lithium-nickel-manganese-cobalt-oxide ("NMC"), however it should be noted that lithium-nickel-cobalt-aluminum oxide ("NCA") batteries are found in the best-selling EVs in the United States. 4 The difference between the LIBs is their composition (see figure 1) which contributes to variances in battery properties such as specific energy density comparing NMC and NCA. Research by DeCarlo and Matthews (2019) highlights the importance of cobalt as a material in both NMC and NCA batteries, as well as the global supply constraints for cobalt used in these battery types. Both papers indicate that a projected rise in global demand for EVs and their increasing share of the global automobile market will likely lead to a rise in demand for LIBs and their respective inputs (e.g. cobalt). 

The DRC is the largest source of unrefined cobalt (HS 2605.00) and accounted for 70 percent of global production in 2018. Stakeholders throughout the global supply chain for LiBs and other products for which cobalt is a raw material have raised concerns about a global reliance on cobalt mined in the DRC due to the country's history of corruption, political volatility, and human rights violations (e.g., forced labor, including of children). 19 Stakeholders throughout the global supply chain for cobalt (including certain miners, refiners, and end users in the automotive and consumer electronics industries) are starting to use blockchain technology to trace cobalt from where it is mined to final end use applications. The use of blockchain technology could provide greater transparency in global supply chains by ensuring less cobalt is sourced from mines and firms that engage in human rights violations.

China-the world's largest producer of refined cobalt, LiBs, and their precursor materials— has played an increasingly important role in the GVC for LiBs used in EVs. In recent years, Chinese firms have acquired major assets in the global cobalt mining (HS 2605.00) and refining industry (e.g., HS 2822.00, HS 8105.20), which are related to policy goals set by the Chinese government to modernize the country's manufacturing industries (i.e. Made in China 2025) and to promote the use of renewable energy technologies. As previously discussed, China has developed an extensive cobalt refining industry, and certain Chinese firms have been acquiring mining assets around the world in order to ensure a reliable supply of cobalt ores and concentrates for the country's refining industry. For example, in November 2016, CMOC International acquired a 54 percent stake in the Democratic Republic of the Congo's Tenke copper mine, one of the largest in the world and a major source of cobalt byproduct (HS 2605.00), from U.S.-based Freeport McMoran Inc. In fact, Chinese firms are believed to control seven of the largest mines in the DRC, which directly feed refineries in China. Notably, some of these Chinese firms have also developed refining operations in close proximity to mining operations in the DRC. " By acquiring major upstream mining assets in the DRC, Chinese firms have developed a vertically integrated industry whereby they are able to exert a significant degree of control over the global supply chain for cobalt used in LiBs and other applications.

Due to the strategic importance of the EV industry to China's industrial modernization plan known as Made in China 2025, the country's demand for both unrefined (HTS 2605.00) and refined cobalt (HTS 8108.20) is expected to rise in the coming years.4 Currently, China's rechargeable battery industry uses over 80 percent of the cobalt consumed in China. 47 China's Made in China 2025 program calls for Chinese domestic firms to have 70 percent of the Chinese market for electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids (i.e., new energy vehicles) by 2020, and 80 percent by 2025, as well as for two Chinese firms to be among the world's top ten largest new-energy (primarily electric) vehicle manufacturers.

China reportedly has pursued various policies intended to support the EV manufacturing sector, including subsidies, production quotas, and higher fuel economy standards. 49 To meet its ambitious targets, China has developed a vertically integrated supply chain comprised of both private and stateowned enterprises with domestic and/or foreign mining and refining facilities, as well as LIB and EV manufacturing facilities. According to Japan's Nano Research Institute, China accounted for over 66 percent of global LIB cathode (cobalt-intensive) manufacturing capacity in 2017.50 Further, Benchmark Mineral Intelligence notes that the country's total share of global cobalt sulfate production and LIB manufacturing could increase to 80 percent and 55 percent, respectively, by 2020 (figure 7). Similarly, China already accounts for 47 percent of the global EV stock.