Most Co is produced as a by-product of Cu production, with 20 wt.% as a by-product of Ni production, and 8 wt.% from either Cu or Ni operations. Only about 2 wt.% comes from specific Co mines found in Morocco [13]. Annual production of Co has been increasing at a rate of ~7% in recent years [19], with only a ~0.6% decrease in consumption in 2020 despite the COVID-19 pandemic [20]. Total Co production from refineries was ~132,000 tonnes in 2019 (i.e., cobalt refined from ores, concentrates, or intermediate products), with 68.2% production taking place in China [18]. Around 36% of refined Co production originates from imported materials, as some refining countries, such as Japan and Norway, do not mine Co domestically while countries like China and Finland mainly refine imported Co-containing minerals [18,21]. With complex, yet less diverse supply chains, any potential problems with either Copperbelt mines in Central Africa or Co refineries in China would seriously disrupt the global Co supply [22]. Although there are more than 150 known Co deposits that are yet to be exploited globally, these are not expected to solve supply problems in the medium-to-long term.

The Co used in lithium-ion batteries accounted for 57% of the total used in 2020, following a 10% annual growth rate between 2013 and 2020 [20]. Other than batteries in automotive and portable electronics, Co was also used in aerospace, energy infrastructure, paints and coatings, machinery and plastics [20]. With rapid growth of EV sales expected in the future, the demand of Co is predicted to increase by a factor of ~20 by 2050 [24], predominantly in the form tetroxides and sulphates of Co [20]. To meet the future Co demand for EVs alone, a minimum of 3% annual supply growth will be necessary [25]. Current consumption data shows that Asia is the largest market for Co, followed by Europe and North America [17]. However, long-term deals, generous subsidies, and incentives in Europe have helped to attract investors to secure and buffer stocks, initiate new export routes and improve price security as the market matures.

Extensive research is ongoing to reduce or replace Co in cathodes [26]. However, this is not currently possible, due to various technical challenges and safety concerns. Reducing the amount of Co in each battery could be possible, but the reduction in Co use per battery is likely to be outweighed by the significantly high number of batteries required in the future [27]. Therefore, Co supply must evolve to prevent major barriers to achieving many desirable environmental and energy transitions.

About 51% of global Co reserves are in the DRC, which is reported to be the 6th most fragile country and the 17th most corrupt country in the world [28]. Amnesty International regard Co as a ‘conflict mineral’, that is traded, taxed, and looted, fuelled by corruption, and sourced under hazardous working conditions that violate human rights [29]. However, only about 10% of DRC mines are illegal and fall under the ‘conflict mineral’ category, while the rest of DRC mines are well-regulated, controlled, and mechanised. Most are situated in the Copperbelt area away from ongoing violence in the East of the DRC [30].

Under the new mining conduct code, the Congolese Government have validated hundreds of mining sites as conflict free (Law. No. 18/001, 2018). In this regard, artisanal and small-scale mining, which provides ~10% of DRC Co production, is currently being regulated by the government [20]. Furthermore, Co supply from artisanal mining, despite associated ethical issues, is essential to reduce risks of supply shortages [31]. Negative perceptions heavily impact local mining revenues, livelihoods, and foreign investment. In addition, global Co supply chain risks are frequently reported, because most mining is taking place in the DRC [32], and this is associated with poor governance, political instability, recurring violence, and financial corruption [33,34].

With respect to Co extraction, land-based mining methods depend on the grade, morphology, structure, depth, shape, dip, subsidence, uniformity, rock substance strength and available technology. Open pit mining is fast and low-cost, and ideal for widely spread low-grade ore bodies located near the surface. However, the time gap between overburden removal and extraction must be short to justify costs [35]. Underground mining is used for higher grade, small or deep ore bodies. Methods used include room and pillar mining for level or shallow dipping deposits, with block caving used for large, uniform deposits [13]. Open pit and underground mining can be integrated simultaneously. The open pit can commence extracting Co ores at surface level whilst the underground workings are constructed. This allows shallow and deep areas of the ore body to be mined to save time [13]. However, current environmental regulations and improvements in mining techniques mostly favour underground mining.

Processing of Co-containing ores depends on the deposit type, composition, nature of the final product, market requirements, site location, logistics, labour skills, availability of energy, recovery efficiency and costs [37]. Two major processing pathways exist for producing Co metal. Hydrometallurgy uses differences in solubility and electrochemical properties and involves leaching, followed by concentration, purification (by solvent extraction or ion exchange) and metal recovery (by electrolysis or precipitation). Pyrometallurgy uses variations in melting points and density to chemically remove Co using heat and reducing agents, so that impurities are expelled as gaseous emissions or diverted into a slag, with Co and Ni separated after the smelting step [38]. The types of processes involved in each extraction pathway will vary according to the type of ore deposit and its mineralogy [39].
In the hydrometallurgical method of mining cobalt containing sulphide ores, the ore is often treated by a sulphatising roast in a fluidised bed furnace and the resultant calcine reduced. The Cu-Co ores of DRC and Zambia were historically treated through sulphatising roast into soluble oxides although, recently, mines such as Tenke Fungurume in the DRC use sulphuric acid leaching followed by solvent extraction and electrowinning for copper with cobalt being precipitated as a mixed hydroxide precipitate. With diminishing sulphide ores of nickel, the high-pressure acid leaching (HPAL) process has been developed to treat nickel laterites, mainly the limonitic type ores, many of which contain cobalt [40]. The HPAL method, being the most common process used, is also suitable for ores where acid consumption should be lower [41]. Generally, hydrometallurgical methods consume less energy and generate less emissions, require lower capital costs, and have higher extraction efficiency, however, they produce large quantities of acid waste, involve complex processing steps, and cause higher disposal costs for acidic leachates/wastewater.

In pyrometallurgical extraction, as the name suggests, the refining process uses heat to separate the minerals withing the ore. This Co extraction method is energy and CO2 intensive, and emissions rise significantly if coal or oil are used for heating the ore (to separate the metals based on their melting point and density) [20]. This method also results in hazardous gaseous emissions but does not generate wastewater and requires fewer processing steps than hydrometallurgical methods [42]. Although hydrometallurgical extraction of Co is believed to more common that pyrometallurgical extraction, the exact industry share of both technologies could not be accurately estimated due to lack of standardised data.

Following Co extraction, the next step, i.e., refining, involves removing impurities using electrolytic processes, solvent extraction, and electrowinning. Refined Co is manufactured and traded as concentrate, intermediate compounds, high purity metal and salts [13]. Refined cobalt products are traded as metals (powders, granules, briquettes, cathodes, rounds, pellets, ingots), cobalt salts (chlorides, sulphates, nitrates, carbonates, acetates), oxides and carboxylates.

A circular economy ensures resources remain in the economy for as long as possible, mitigating both virgin resource extraction and end-of-life disposal. It also reduces production wastes, emissions, and wastewater, and prolongs the lifetime of materials and products, helping to build long-term resilience and sustainability [73].
Co is an energy-transition metal that is expected to undergo severe market competition due to the increase in low-carbon technology development [74] and limited mining reserves. For these reasons, improvements, to diversify both primary and secondary supply, to reduce disruptions and increase resilience, are essential [34]. Increased secondary supply through a circular economy will help achieve SDGs and key environmental targets, including the transition to net zero. A circular economy for Co offers particularly advantages in the transportation and electric mobility sectors.

To facilitate a net zero transition and achieve the Paris Agreement target of reducing global mean temperature rise to well below 2 °C (compared to pre-industrial levels), annual EV sales must account for at least 35% of global vehicle sales by 2030. This is estimated to require 1.2 million tonnes of Co [75]. Moreover, EV batteries need to be safe and long lasting [76], with used battery collection rates required to increase to least 70% by 2030. Current recycling rates are low, at about 32%, and much less than what is economically possible and what is needed to meet projected Co supply shortfalls [77].

An important factor impeding the expansion of this sector is the lack of standardisation, making recycling processes complex (wide range of battery types, different chemistries, and forms) and thus expensive. Perhaps the very efficient recycling of up to 98% for lead-acid batteries could offer key insights to improve spent EV battery collection, transport, processing, and recycling.

From a recycling and resource recovery perspective, future focus needs to be on post-consumer EV batteries, though this should be in coordination with improved battery performance and longevity at the design/production stage. For secondary Co, spent rechargeable batteries and scrap, Co-containing alloys could be the main pivots of a circular economy. Current projections show that the global EV recycling industry is expected to triple by 2060 [77], with Europe having ~10% Co from previously consumed batteries [19]. A circular economy via enhanced recycling also allows shorter supply chains located closer to end users, reducing transport/shipping costs and pollution [78].

Price fluctuations are critical because if the value of primary Co increases, secondary Co becomes more financially attractive. Moreover, the presence of supplementary metals in Co-containing scrap affects the overall economic feasibility of recycling [79]. Perceptions around recycled materials affects the circular economy transition for Co, as recycled materials are perceived to have inferior quality, efficiency, and/or safety. Research and testing into Co recovery from used batteries should be communicated to various stakeholders to improve transparency [80]. In this regard, collection services, battery testers, recycling companies and manufactures should create a single, straightforward, and effortless destination point for users [81]. The standardisation of Co-containing EV batteries could make the recycling systems more accessible and efficient, making Co recycling systems economically feasible, environmentally sustainable, and technologically advanced, thus enabling a robust circular economy for secondary Co [82].

Co is technologically important because LiCoO2 and its derivatives are used as the positive electrode in lithium-ion batteries. These are used in electric vehicles and demand for Co is expected to increase by a factor of ~20 by 2050. Most Co is produced as a by-product from Cu and Ni production with ores extracted from both large mines and artisanal mines, mostly in the DRC. Current mining practices are considered unsustainable and unlikely to meet the growing market for Co. Alternative sources such as deep-sea mining are unlikely to be viable and are associated with significant environmental issues. Secondary supply and the recycling rates of Co are low, but with huge potential to be increased and optimised. It is therefore critical that there is renewed focus on developing a circular economy for Co, in which the current linear model of resource extraction, use and disposal is replaced by one in which Co is extracted at end of first life, so that it can remain in the economic cycle for as long as possible. There are issues with the complexity of Co recycling due to lack of standardisation of design and chemistry, particularly in lithium-ion batteries. However, this is the only way that existing technologies that rely on Co will be able to contribute to a sustainable future.