Multiple companies from several countries participate in the LIBs supply chain and provide a variety of services, from the key mining, material refining, and LiBs manufacture. Key raw materials such as lithium, nickel, manganese, cobalt, graphite, copper, and aluminum are sourced from mineral-rich countries such as China, Australia, South Africa, Canada, Indonesia, and many more. Depending on the material, global resource supply is controlled by a few countries. For example, South Africa is the country's biggest manganese exporter, followed by China and Australia in 2015 (Olivetti, 2017).

China is a major player in the production of LIBs across the world. China currently has a monopoly on the supply of graphite, which is one of the major components of LIB. The LIB industry is dominated by Asian nations, particularly China, Japan, and Korea. The LIB market is now dominated by Panasonic Sanyo, AESC, LG Chem, and Samsung. Tianjin Lishen a lithium producer and LIB manufacturers plays a vital role as a battery component supplier in the worldwide LIB industry.

World globalization made all this happen, the integration of trade and manufacturing from countries all over create a global supply chain to make LIBs and other ESS components.

However, in the past half-decade, the trend of domestic manufacturing is in the rise. Trade imbalance, high unemployment rate, trade tensions, and supply chain vulnerability are the real forces driving this trend.

Based on the literature review above, this research will use a methodological qualitative approach, since it investigates the demand and supply paradigm in the nickel industry. Various analytical data are used to diagnose changes in demand. The developed analytical data provide information on the long-term direction in which a given market is moving and construct future plans or policies. Using a qualitative approach will give a large view of ESS especially LIBs future demand and gives the implementation of the renewable energy transition. This approach is suitable for processing the data from the available necessary research data. The main weakness of this approach with this study is only give a perspective from the macro view of the supply chain.

With the high demand for battery nickel, Indonesia has a great influence on the global nickel industry. Indonesia has always been somewhat involved in the supply chain of LIBs, with the export of raw nickel ore and matte nickel products since the discovery of such minerals. Through the 2014-2017 period of raw nickel ore export ban, Indonesia has built nickel more smelters for producing Ferro-nickel products for stainless steel global demand. Post-2017, Indonesia's involvement in the LIBs supply chain is still mainly from the export of matte nickel products, and raw nickel ore that will continue to be refined by HPAL smelters in other countries. HPAL or High-Pressure Acid Leaching is laterite ore processing into semi-finished materials in the form of hydroxides or sulfides (MHP/MSP). The output product from HPAL smelters is grade 1 nickel laterite that is needed in making LIBs. The increasing demand for LIBs made the central government put pressure on mining companies to build their own HPAL smelters. By 2021, there are six active HPAL nickel smelters in Indonesia. These smelters currently starting to take up more market share in Indonesia's nickel export from ferro- nickel, towards grade 1 refined nickel and Matte Nickel.

Both nickel products produced by nickel producers in Indonesia are so far the cathode components of LIBs. These products must go through two to three stages of processing at the battery manufacturer's installation before becoming a complete battery. This installation is still being processed in China or Japan.

Based on the supply chain mapping, it is certain that Indonesian nickel products entered the LIBs supply chain. Of the 10 largest LIB's companies in the world, Indonesia was connected to at least 5 companies with 67% world LIBs production market share, either through battery (component) producers who hold shares in Indonesian nickel factories and companies that have agreed on supply contracts with factories.

Indonesia is one of the countries that has the best raw materials in the world to produce LIBs, namely low-grade nickel ore or commonly called limonite (0.8-1.5% nickel content). The use of low grade nickel as raw material for batteries is a priority in accordance with Presidential Regulation Number 55 of 2019 concerning the Acceleration of the Battery-Based Electric Motor Vehicle Program for Road Transportation, that also impacted the whole LIBs material supply chain. In addition, the average world HPAL project only reaches 80% of its design capacity within 4 years. This shows the difficulty of achieving production scale according to design capacity. Moreover, mine processing waste, known as tailings, requires additional infrastructure and technology to be adequately managed and meet environmental and social standards.

Indonesia's nickel position is strategic in the global LIBs supply chain. The depletion of nickel sulphide reserves has forced the industry to rely on laterite ores, where Indonesia has the largest nickel laterite reserves in the world. If all three are able to operate according to the planned capacity, Indonesia's production is equivalent to 50% of global MHP/MSP production capacity and 6.8% class 1 nickel. Indonesia will likely be the world's biggest producer of nickel ore in 2022 and become the largest producer of refined nickel. The number of operating nickel smelters was 2 before the first export ban in 2014, 13 in 2020, and should more than double to 30 through 2023. However, the ministry's plans have been revised before, and could prove to be too ambitious.