The number of publications in the field of spent LIB recovery has grown steadily in recent years. As the battery chemistry and relevant technologies are changing rapidly, this paper reviews recent articles (published between 2014 and 2021) and older articles are excluded from this investigation. Section 2 shows a detailed review of different LIB recovery technologies, their commercial applications, and the advantages and disadvantages of each method. Section 3 shows the economic and environmental impacts of these technologies and the associated reverse supply chain optimization strategies for maximizing the economic and environmental benefits. In addition, section 4 summarizes the key challenges and future work for sustainable value recovery from spent LIBs.

Limitations and future work. First, the inclusion of value recovery supply chain and transportation-related impacts has rarely been reported in the LCA literature. The existing LCA tools such as the EverBatt model can be used to calculate the transportation impacts, and the users need to define the transportation mode and distance that reflect the current LIB supply chain in their LCA studies. In the papers we have reviewed, the transportation distance was assumed without any elaboration on the connection to the LIB supply chain, and some papers did not discuss the transportation mode or distance in their LCA. As the LIB recycling business is at an early stage of development in the US and LIB manufacturing infrastructure is heavily concentrated in Asia, the recycled black mass or battery precursors may need to be transported overseas to close the materials loop. As a relevant example, recovering NdFeB magnet assembly from hard drives collected in the US entailed transportation of the EOL hard drives to Thailand due to lack of disassembly and manufacturing facilities in the US, and the transportation mode (i.e., air vs. sea) played a decisive role in the environmental benefit of the recovery strategy [891. Transportation would therefore contribute significantly to the environmental impact of LIB recycling. Second, variations in functional unit definition (e.g., 1 kg of cathode materials vs. 1 kWh of battery capacity vs. I kWh of energy delivered) and LCA methods adopted (e.g., ReCiPe vs. GREET) were commonplace. These variations led to heterogeneous results that were difficult to integrate or compare. In addition, life cycle inventory data was not disclosed in some LCA studies, challenging the reliability, transparency, and repeatability of the analysis. Therefore, future studies could explore the supply chain implications of the recycled LIB materials, standardize the functional unit and LCA method, and disclose the full life cycle inventory data in order to facilitate data interpretation.

Future research direction: Ding et al. [181 and Bloomberg New Energy Finance 195] projected that the cost of LIB manufacturing will decrease continuously, as shown in Figure 10, through new technology development (e.g., new battery chemistries—NMC811 and Si anode) and product design optimization (e.g., cell design). Consequently, the LIB recovery technologies are challenged to be robust to process diverse incoming EOL LIB designs and chemistries and yet lower the cost continuously to compete with virgin LIB production. For instance, recycling of LFP and LMO cathodes through pyro- or hydro- processes could not pay back the recovery cost due to the low value of the constituent materials, rendering direct recycling the potential solution [231. Another benefit of direct recycling is the streamlined process that reduces the processing steps and transportation distances among various stakeholders of the supply chain, since it could directly recover cathode materials as opposed to the other techniques recovering metal alloys or cathode precursors [23491. Therefore, future studies may focus on addressing the limitations associated with direct recycling shown in Table 2 for industry adoption of this new technology. For example, development of cost-effective sortation technologies would be desirable for separating batteries with different cathodes. Another way to address the mixed cathodes problem is to develop recycling methods that enable the production of high-value products, such as cathode, directly from mixed feed without breaking down the cathode structures (e.g., application to a mixture of NMC cathodes) [23]. In addition, policy incentives that promote LIB recovery may help the economic viability of LIB recycling, as will be shown in the next section.

To minimize operations cost and GHG emissions, Wang et al. [25] designed an optimal reverse logistics network for spent LIBs. Their model considered three potential strategies for handling spent batteries of different qualities: reuse, remanufacturing, and recycling. The optimal configuration of the recycling network is affected mainly by transportation costs, the carbon tax, and the number of used electric vehicle batteries. Although the processing cost constituted a major cost, changes in the processing cost had no effect on the optimal network design. Li et al. (1041 integrated remanufacturing and recycling into an existing forward supply chain network of LIBs, which could increase the total profit by 3196. The cost savings associated with the integrated supply chain resulted mainly from the reduced transportation cost, raw material purchasing cost, and processing cost. Sensitivity analysis revealed that the profit was mainly influenced by the processing cost of collection centers, highlighting the importance of optimizing collection facility operations (e.g., dismantling). Hoyer et al. [105] developed an optimization model that allowed a sequential deployment of recycling plants over time. The strategy was found to return a higher net present value than establishing all the plants at the beginning of the planning horizon because future developments in the LIB market are particularly uncertain and dynamic. Tadaros et al. [106] designed a future supply chain network for spent LIBS in Sweden. They emphasized the importance of increasing the initial capacity of inspection sites and recycling centers compared with that of the status-quo and opening new facilities over the years to accommodate the increasing volume of spent LIBs. Hendrickson et al. [107] applied geospatial modeling to determine the optimal facility locations for LIB recycling in California with the goal of minimizing the cost and GHG emissions. The results showed that, compared with using air transport, using rail and truck transportation could substantially reduce transportation-related GHG emissions (23—4596). The authors also used LCA to compare LIB virgin production with pyrometallurgical recycling. Material recovery from pyro-process was found to lower the primary energy demand by 6—56% and decrease GHG emissions by 23% compared to virgin production.