Supply and Demand 

Currently no global market exists for lithium, and it is not traded on  the  stock  exchange.  Prices  for  lithium  have  been  obtained mainly  from  trade  journals  (USDOE,  2011).  The  evolution  of lithium  prices  is  shown  in  Exhibit  6.  The  potential  demand  for lithium,  particularly  due  to  the  growing  popularity  of  electric vehicles  has  raised  some  concerns  (Tahil,  2007,  2008).  Brines, currently  the  cheapest  source  of  lithium,  are  largely  associated with salt lakes such as the Salar de Atacama and Salar de Uyuni. Only  a  few  of  hard  rock  mineral  deposits  of  lithium  exist  in deposits that have economic value.

It  is  generally  accepted  that  batteries,  especially  for  EVs, will  result  in  a  significant  increase  in  demand  and  represent a  considerable  share  of  the  market  (Bradshaw  et  al.,  2011). An  important  area  of  concern  is  infrastructure  capacity:  will production rates keep pace with rapid growth rate in demand? In the 70s Kunasz (1977) and Hammond (1977) assessed the ability of  the  lithium  industry  to  satisfy  the  demands  of  automotive and storage batteries. Kunasz concluded that there was adequate supply  to  fulfill  demand.  Hammond,  however,  came  to  the conclusion  that  there  was  great  uncertainty  about  the  future  of lithium  due  to  lack  of  knowledge  about  the  extent  of  resources. These studies were based on a lithium industrial structure that has since changed considerably. More recently, because of increasing use  of  lithium  for  industrial  applications,  various  articles  and reports  have  explored  potential  shortfalls  in  lithium  production compared  to  expected  demand  (Boulanger  et  al.,  2011,  Tahil, 2008).  Lithium  supply  is  not  simply  based  on  the  available material  in  the  earth’s  crust,  but  also  the  ability  of  the  available production  infrastructure  to  physically  increase  production  to meet  the  demand  (Abelland  Oppenheimer,  2009).  As  with  the case of resource/reserve estimation, different techniques are used in  the  literature  to  assess  the  impact  of  rising  demand  for  EVs on  lithium  production.  Again,  no  two  estimates  are  the  same due  to  varying  assumptions  of  some  factors  including  lithium requirements  for  batteries,  future  EV  battery  ranges,  different battery chemistries, production capacity, and available reserves.

Using  the  cumulative  availability  curve,  and  assuming  a worst case scenario in which demand for lithium for EV batteries rapidly  increases  over  the  coming  decades,  Yaksic  and  Tilton (2009)  estimate  lithium  requirement  between  2008  and  2100  to be  17.5Mt.  This  scenario  includes  an  option  to  extract  lithium from  seawater  at  a  cost  of  $7  -$10  for  each  pound  of  lithium carbonate.  In  their  model,  Gruber  et  al.  (2011)  calculate  the demand for EV Li-ion batteries, assuming that the batteries have 10 years of useful life and use approximately 0.114 kg Li per kWh.   Seeking  to  calculate  maximum  expected  lithium  demand,  their model uses a capacity requirement of 0.8 kWh, 20 kWh, and 60 kWh for HEVs, PHEVs, and BEVs batteries respectively. By their estimates, the upper limit for lithium demand from 2010 to 2100, including  non-battery,  portable  battery  and  automotive  battery uses are 19.6 Mt (with 12.8 MT from vehicle battery use).

Gaines  and  Nelson  (2009)  explore  the  demand  for  lithium if  U.S.  EV  demand  increases  rapidly;  they  then  compare  this  to estimates  of  production  and  reserves  to  determine  if  there  is  a potential  supply  deficit.  This  study  uses  the  most  optimistic scenario  for  penetration  of  EVs  into  the  U.S.  from  a  DOE Multipath  Study  (DOE  2007).  Using  this  scenario,  the  authors assume  that  90%  of  all  light  duty  vehicles  in  the  U.S.  are  some form  of  EV  by  2050.  Based  on  their  estimates,  lithium  demand rises to over 50,000 tonnes annually by 2050 (assuming a NCA-graphite  chemistry).  Assuming  world  demand  was  four  times U.S. demand, the authors estimate that current production levels will  be  sufficient  to  cover  automotive  demand  (only)  until  after 2025. The automotive demand declines after 2035 if recycling is considered.  It  is  important  to  note  that  this  estimate  considers only  automotive  demand  and  does  not  include  portable  battery and  other  non-battery  demand.  They  conclude  that,  “...even an  aggressive  program  of  vehicles  with  electric  drive  can  be supported for decades with known supplies.”According to Wadia et al. (2011), for EV deployment based on  annual  production,  nearly  all  lithium  based  couples  have enough production to meet a short term target of (10-15yr) of 1 million 40kWh vehicle batteries; however, a significant expansion of production capacity is required to meet the  a long term goal (40-50yr)  of  100  million  lithium  based  EV  batteries  annually. Scale-up  will  require  a  massive  capital  investment  in  mining and  may  require  extraction  of  lower  quality  resources,  driving extraction cost higher.

In  contrast  to  other  studies,  Tahil’s  (2008)  projection  of lithium  availability  is  alarming.  His  forecasts  show  that  in  an optimistic lithium production scenario combined with high non-automotive  demand,  only  30,000  tonnes  of  lithium  carbonate will  be  left  for  automotive  battery  use  in  2015.  This  amount, he  estimates,  is  adequate  for  about  approximately  1.3  million Chevrolet  Volts  (PHEVs).  Under  a  more  conservative  scenario, less amount of lithium is available for EV applications. According to Tahil’s estimation, lithium carbonate demand will exceed even the  optimistic  production  scenario  if  demand  in  a  high  non-automotive scenario does not slow down after 2014.

Although  there  are  conflicting  reports  on  the  quantity  of lithium  readily  and  economically  recoverable,  all  agree  there  is enough  lithium  supply  to  last  for  the  short-term.  While  some analysis (Gruber et al., 2011; Gaines and Nelson, 2010; Kesler et al.,  2012)  suggest  that  lithium  availability  will  not  constrain  the growth of electric vehicles, conservative estimates of production levels  by  Tahil  (2008)  and  Wanger  (2011)  indicate  that  lithium supply will lag demand by 2020 and 2025 respectively. Rade and Andersson (2001) argue the possibility that the use of metals in batteries could become a limiting factor in the expansion of EVs due to limited raw materials availability.

These limitations will be imposed based on various factors including   battery   life,   recycling   feasibility,   metal   scarcity, technology  and  metal  requirement  per  battery.  According  to Waddia et al. (2011) and Gruber et al. (2011), scale up of lithium production  will  be  particularly  important  to  meet  long  term goals. Even less conservative estimates suggest that while lithium supplies  will  be  adequate  for  vehicle  demand,  there  is  a  risk  of supply  imbalances  if  EV  demands  rises  rapidly  in  a  window  of 10  to  20  years  out  (Mandel,  2010).  The  biggest  hurdles  to  long term supply, according to Gruber et al. (2011), include increasing production   capacity,   advancing   the   mining   technology,   and developing the Salar de Uyuni deposit.

Lithium Supply Chain Framework

The deployment of Li-ion batteries for wide scale electric vehicle deployment  could  potentially  create  a  vehicle  system  that  is vulnerable to a wide variety of risk factors and barriers; therefore, from  a  strategic  standpoint,  there  is  a  strong  case  to  carefully consider  these  issues.  The  supply  chain  in  Exhibit  7  shows  the various  risk  factors  and  constraints  affecting  the  future  of  EVs. This  model  demonstrates  the  connection  between  supply  and demand,  and  provides  a  framework  with  which  to  investigate the technical, geopolitical, and economic factors that impact the supply of lithium through the different life cycle stages. Thus, the model can inform where to target both engineering management and policy actions.

At  the  mining  or  extraction  stage,  major  risks  include  the location   of   the   deposit,   cost,   geopolitical   environment.   and mining  regulations.  These  issues  have  a  significant  impact  on lithium  supply  as  they  have  the  potential  to  disrupt  supply even  when  lithium  reserves  are  available.  In  the  event  of  this disruption,  the  future  of  EVs  may  be  jeopardized.  These  factors create  complex  relationships  between  the  availability  of  lithium reserves  and  the  ability  to  supply  the  material  when  needed  by technologies (in this case EVs) that use them. Furthermore, these risks may cause variations in supply curves that are not accounted for in most studies that focus on resource availability in the earth’s crust without considering institutional and other environmental aspects that could potentially be limiting factors. 

Overall, this model indicates that some amount of skepticism is  needed  with  regard  to  material  availability.  Although  several of  these  studies  agree  that  there  are  adequate  resources  for  the short to medium term, there is a potential for supply disruption if  other  factors  are  considered.  For  instance,  lithium  is  more geographically   concentrated   than   current   oil   supplies   with roughly  90%  of  resources  located  in  five  countries.  In  addition, lithium  production  is  heavily  concentrated  in  four  countries, which represent over 90% of current global production. 

A  potential  risk  is  the  influence  of  extraction  cost  on  the readily available lithium supplies. The current producers can exert market  power  by  keeping  the  price  low  and,  therefore,  limiting market entrance for other producers that may have less economic reserves.  This  was  the  case  when  production  shifted  from  the U.S. to South America where production was cheaper. This limits diversity of supplies and increases the risk of supply disruption in the event that supplies from a major producer become unavailable; therefore,  it  is  crucial  that  engineering  managers  advance  their knowledge about the complex relationships between these factors and lithium.

Currently,   a   battery   technology   that   can   compete   with lithium  for  electric  vehicle  batteries  does  not  exist  –  this  is unlikely to change in the foreseeable future (Kushnir and Sanden, 2012).  Although  lithium  demand  for  automotive  batteries  will grow  significantly  in  the  future,  other  end-use  applications  will also  have  a  considerable  demand  for  lithium.  After  extraction, processed  lithium  is  used  to  manufacture  the  cathode,  which is  a  component  in  Li-ion  batteries.  At  this  stage,  competing applications  pose  a  risk  to  future  EV  deployment,  especially  if there are no alternative lithium supplies and if alternative vehicle technologies are not developed. Rapid increases in demand could cause supply-demand mismatches and result in high prices with implications  for  lead  time.  The  evaporation  processes  used  for lithium extraction from brine can last 12 to 18 months (USDOE, 2010).  In  the  event  of  supply  imbalances,  the  lead  time  with respect to lithium supply from brine may not be elastic enough to meet demand in a timely manner. In addition, there is no fast way to meet demand if the demand exceeds the production capacity as new processing facilities take about two years to be constructed (Kushnir  and  Sanden,  2012).  If  the  high  prices  make  it  more economical to bring new mining operations online, this process could take several years for permitting and construction to take place.  This  means  that  supply  response  to  scarcity  may  be  slow, therefore hindering lithium dependent technologies like EVs. 

The  supply  chain  also  shows  the  potential  for  recycling and  reusing  lithium  carbonate  from  finished  applications.  If recovered or secondary lithium is reused in production, the raw material  requirement  can  be  significantly  reduced;  however,  at present,  lithium  recycling  is  almost  non-existent.  In  addition,  it is  unknown  if  secondary  lithium  has  a  high  enough  quality  for reuse  in  high-tech  applications  such  as  EV  batteries  (Ziemann et al., 2012). Although several studies assume that recycling will play a major part in EV future, this is not guaranteed. Recycling will  be  largely  determined  by  factors  such  as  recycling  cost, recycling policies, and recycling technology. These will influence the  recycling  feasibility,  recycling  efficiency,  and  the  collection efficiency  of  used  end  products.  Assuming  recycling  economics and  technology  do  not  pose  a  threat  and  policies  are  in  place, then it is possible lithium recycling efficiency could reach 95%, as is the case with lead acid batteries.

To proactively address these identified risks, several approaches need to be taken. One response would be to develop and  maintain  diverse  lithium  supplies  in  order  to  minimize  the risk  of  supply-demand  imbalances  and  avoid  long  lead  times. Developing  alternative  battery  and  transportation  technologies would also reduce the risk of an over demand. Finally it is crucial to implement strong policies to promote recycling and recover as much secondary lithium as possible. 