Lithium-ion batteries are considered a key component in mobile and stationary energy storage applications. However, the current technology is based on several critical materials, such as lithium, cobalt, nickel, manganese, and graphite, which are associated with various environmental and social impacts in their supply chain. While the environmental impacts of lithium-ion batteries have been investigated in numerous studies, little attention has been given to the potential social impacts. Therefore, an assessment of the social sustainability hotspots of lithium-ion batteries is carried out. The assessment is based on a spatially differentiated resource flow model of the supply chain. Data on social risks with respect to child labor, corruption, occupational toxics and hazards, and poverty are extracted from the Social Hotspots Database in openLCA. The results of the social assessment are discussed along with environmental and economic considerations to generate recommendations for improving supply chain sustainability.

An overview of the supply chain of lithium-ion batteries with related production activities and material flows is presented in Fig. 1. The raw materials that are used in lithium-ion batteries can be found in different locations. For some of them, geological reserves and production are concentrated in a few countries. The largest producer of lithium is Australia, where it is extracted from the mineral spodumene. Other significant producers are Chile and Argentina, where the lithium is extracted from concentrated brines. The production of nickel is diversified geographically, with Indonesia, the Philippines, and Canada being the top three producers. Cobalt production is highly concentrated in DR Congo with a share of more than 60%. Minor producers of Cobalt include Russia and Australia. Manganese production mainly takes place in South Africa, China, and Australia. Production of aluminium and graphite is concentrated to more than 50% in China, with minor shares in Russia and Canada for aluminum, and India and Brazil for graphite. The largest producers of copper are Chile and Peru, followed by China. 

The raw materials are used as inputs for the production of intermediates such as lithium-cobalt-nickel-manganese oxide for the cathode active material, or lithiumhexafluorophosphate for the electrolyte. The production of these intermediates is usually done by specialty chemicals companies located in China. [9]

The next stage of the supply chain is cell production. It involves electrode production, cell assembly, formation, and aging [10]. Until 2015, Japan and South Korea were the leading countries with regard to production capacities for battery cells, but now China is the biggest producer and its capacity is growing rapidly [11]. With the operation of Tesla's Gigafactory, production has also started in the United States. Projects for European cell production in Sweden and Poland are also underway [1].

S-LCA is a methodology to analyze the potential positive and negative social impacts of products along their life cycle, comprising all activities that are related to the extraction and processing of raw materials, manufacturing, distribution, use, maintenance, recycling, and final disposal. Social impacts are considered as the consequences on the stakeholders in the context of these activities. S-LCA seeks to foster improvements in the product's supply chain by providing information on socio-economic aspects for decision-makers and by stimulating a dialogue on the social impacts.

The general methodology of S-LCA is similar to the methodology of environmental life cycle assessment (LCA) as both methods are based on the ISO 14040 framework. While the procedure of goal and scope definition, life cycle inventory analysis, life cycle impact assessment, and interpretation is common, S-LCA differs in the data that is collected. In contrast to LCA's focus on physical quantities of natural resources and emissions, S-LCA emphasizes the socio-economic interactions of the activities and analyzes their organizational and societal context in the supply chain. In this regard, S-LCA provides complementary information to LCA and thus enables a more comprehensive picture of product sustainability. 

Since social impacts depend on the specific context of the product's supply chain, S-LCA requires the collection of site-specific data. Depending on the objective of the study, it may also be possible to use data at a less granular spatial level to analyze the social hotspots in the supply chain. Social hotspots are defined as activities that are located in a region where a situation occurs that may be considered a problem, a risk or an opportunity, in relation to a social theme of interest. [13,14]

A comprehensive data source to analyze social hotspots is the social hotspots database (SHDB). The SHDB seeks to provide access to best available social risk and opportunity information at the most granular level possible as well as to provide methods and tools to calculate and summarize this information into a quantitative assessment of the social performance across a product supply chain and life cycle. It uses a multi-regional input-output model that is based on the Global Trade Analysis Project (GTAP) and contains 6,441 unit processes comprising 113 regions with 67 industry sectors. [14]