The results of LCA studies about EVs currently differ in their estimations of environmental impacts due to several factors. Some of the factors are the climatic conditions, source and availability of primary data, the scale of battery production, and methodological choices [2], [3], [7]. However, some of the variability could be associated with the choice of specific battery datasets, such as nickel sulphate, cobalt sulphate, and lithium hydroxide. Most of the recent and future EVs will be powered by NMC-based (nickel manganese cobalt) lithium-ion batteries (LIBs). The rising numbers of EVs and the trend toward nickel-rich LIBs lead to increasing demand for nickel sulphate. The global annual forecast for nickel sulphate demand is expected to increase from less than 200 kilotons in 2022 to more than 1000 kilotons by 2030 [9]. Nickel sulphate is an important feedstock in the production of LIB cathodes. Nickel sulphate as an active material of the cathode contributes significantly to their environmental impact [3]. Therefore, there is a need to understand the existing nickel sulphate datasets used in battery studies. It is essential to identify the representativeness and source of difference in existing datasets. A thorough analysis of the existing datasets can aid in selecting the appropriate dataset and indicate the hotspots in nickel sulphate production. A literature review indicated that there are a few studies which examine the environmental impact of nickel sulphate, but none of them analyses and quantifies the environmental impacts of the different datasets.

It is important to understand the differences in the existing datasets to model representative supply chain configurations.

In this study, we analyze the production of nickel sulphate based on different datasets used in life cycle assessment studies.

The GWP100 results of the different datasets vary strongly. The main reasons for these variations are the mix of the utilized

feedstock materials and the source of energy used in the background datasets. The terrestrial acidification results show even more variations between the datasets than the GWP100

results. In contrast to global warming potential, the energy mix has only a relatively small impact on the results of terrestrial acidification. The results also indicate that the impacts vary additionally based on the usage of recycled nickel (E).

The global warming potential, for example, varies from 4.6 kg CO2-eq to 19.6 kg COz-eq. Considering the growing global demand for lithium-ion battery production until 2030, this would indicate a variability of about 23 million metric tons of COz-eq. The existing datasets do not cover the existing variability in nickel sulphate production. If primary data is not available, it would be necessary to explore other methods to acquire the necessary data. For instance, process simulations can represent production of nickel sulphate. The data provided by process simulations can represent the technology variabilities in nickel sulphate production. In addition, they can also consider the changes in ore grade of existing mining facilities. There is a need for technology specific and ore grade specific primary data representative of future nickel sulphate production. The existing datasets are aggregated and do not offer the specificity needed to model representative supply chain configurations.

The influential factors identified in the study should be modelled as accurately as possible and with low uncertainty. The allocation of the feedstock material should depict the real market mix of the raw materials used to produce nickel sulphate, as different feedstock materials provide different environmental impacts. The same applies to the production techniques and the energy mix.

Future LCI should follow a transparent and modular approach [3]. Aggregated and market mix-based datasets lack the specificity required to design supply chain configurations and provide meaningful recommendations to policymakers. If there is a lack of primary data, advanced methods such as process simulations can be used to provide the necessary primary data. In the project SIMTEGRAL [17], we develop process simulations of specific gate-to-gate processes in battery supply chains to generate the necessary life cycle inventory. We take a model-based life cycle engineering approach, and we intend to extend this approach to represent primary and secondary battery material production. Even such simulations can only represent a single process technology, and there could be various process technologies available in the market to produce nickel sulphate. However, they do offer flexibility in modifying the ore grades, and they also offer the granularity in the data needed for process modifications.