Among the variables that affect the (re-)manufacturing decision, the purchase price for returned batteries plays a critical role. In particular, the price of low-quality returns has more influence than the price of high quality returns. (b) Interestingly, the higher purchase price for re-usable returns does not necessarily lead to a higher return rate of reusable returns. (c) The manufacturer's profit is normally higher than the remanufacturer's. This suggests the need to design incentives to promote the remanufacturing sector. (d) Although it is appreciated that maximising the utilisation of batteries over the life-cycle would benefit the environment, the economic benefit needs further investigation.

In this paper, we develop a three-period EV battery recycling and reuse model. We determine the unique Nash equilibrium among new EV battery manufacturer, low quality battery remanufacturer and high-quality battery remanufacturer as well as re-used battery remanufacturer. The purpose is to maximize individual's profit through optimal purchase price and production quantity.

We also analyze the influencing factors for the optimal (re)manufacturing quantity. The result of the analyses suggests that: (a) among the variables that have an impact on the (re-)manufacturing decision, the purchase price of returned batteries plays a critical role. Particularly, the price of low-quality returns has more influence than that of highquality returns. (b) Interestingly, a higher purchasing price for re-usable returns does not necessarily lead to higher return rate of reusable returns. (c) The manufacturer's profit is always higher than remanufacturer's. This suggests the need to design incentives to promote the remanufacturing sector. (d) Although it is appreciated that maximising the utilisation of a battery over its life-cycle would benefit the environment, the economic benefit needs further investigation.

Implication of the research results to practitioners have threefold: (1) Special attention needs to be paid on low-quality returns as it has more significant impact on total profit; (2) Although high-quality return is encouraged, monetary incentive to obtain high-quality returns may not necessarily work; (3) To sustain recycling business, government support is vitally important to keep the business going.

This paper develops the model based on the reality that most manufacturers and remanufacturers make decisions based on their own interests, the profit. There is a lack of coordination among the participants to achieve the maximized total profit for the E V battery CLSC. This leads to our suggestion for future research. In addition, our model suggests that reusing returned batteries does not bring economic benefits. How to realize the benefits for the environment and the economy at same time needs further investigation.