The battery supply chain can be separated into three segments: upstream (mining and extraction of raw materials), midstream (processing of raw materials into battery-grade components), and downstream (cell and pack manufacturing, as well as end-of-life recycling and reuse)13. The supply chains for the critical minerals in these batteries differ in terms of the geography of raw material production (Fig. 1), although a few countries produce the majority of supply for each critical mineral. Arguably the most important choice is the selection of cathode material, as cathodes are over half of the cost of a battery cell and largely determine crucial battery characteristics such as energy density and charging speed14. While other components such as the anode (graphite)15 and electrolyte (typically lithium salt solutions)16 may also suffer from vulnerabilities in their supply chain, the choices among these components are far more limited and thus do not offer the same kind of options to reduce vulnerability by changing technology choices. Furthermore, production data were also much more limited and thus these battery components were excluded from our scope. Most automotive manufacturers around the world are exercising increasing levels of control over their material supply chains as they design batteries for their vehicles (see Supplementary Table 1). As such, this study focuses on the decision-making of firms in the upstream and midstream supply chains, ending at the current typical firm decision boundary, the choice of battery cathode chemistry.

Our vulnerability index aims to estimate the potential for a disruption in one country (or set of countries) to affect the overall supply of battery cathodes given current supply chain flows. As battery production grows and supply chains shift, vulnerability indices can be updated to reflect changing interdependencies. Our vulnerability index does not capture all possible factors that affect critical material vulnerabilities. For example, concentration of raw material reserves countries may affect the long term interdependencies in ways that are not reflected by current material flows

As an illustrative example, we present an analysis of the global disruption vulnerability index of LFP and NMC cathode production for China, the country with the most extensive involvement in battery material supply chains (as described in Fig. 1). This analysis is performed for other countries and regions in Supplementary Fig. 7 and Supplementary Fig. 8. Summaries for each case are presented in Fig. 4, with the contribution of each step of the supply chain to the vulnerability index shown as a proportion of the end cathode material affected.

We bound uncertainty in the vulnerability index in Fig. 4b, c, f, g using network flow optimization to minimize or maximize the portion of the supply chain that could flow through China, given uncertainty about which imports for each country map to which paths. Using only the trade data that is present and accounting for the first type of uncertainty (unobserved intranational flows), we estimate minimum and maximum bounds, as for example we do not necessarily know where the observed production of LFP in China sources lithium from. This corresponds to corresponding to an optimistic case and pessimistic case A. With our base case proportional flow estimates [optimistic estimate to pessimistic case A estimate], we estimate that 17% [0% to 33%] of refined Li imports to the US and Canada are refined in China, increasing the vulnerability index by +2 [+0 to +3] percentage points to a total of 92% [90% to 93%] of cathode material production involving China, depending on which US and Canada imports are used for LFP cathode production. However, it is important to recognize that this scenario, while pessimistic, is not a guaranteed upper bound, as we can have uncertainty due to non-observed and indirect trade that could be attributed to production in China (uncertainties 2 and 3). Subsequently, we include a second, more extreme upper bound (Pessimistic Case B) by simultaneously assuming that all indirect trade and missing materials originate from China, resulting in the vulnerability index for LFP increasing by +7 percentage points between the two pessimistic cases to 100%, as seen in Fig. 4d. These results suggest that LFP battery material supply chains are highly vulnerable to a disruption in China, as even in the most optimistic case the vulnerability index is over 90%. While not noted on the figure, further analysis indicates that even if all cathode production were moved out of China, an estimated 71% of LFP cathode material would use Li inputs produced or traded from China in the proportional case.

The uncertainty due to the observability of trade and missing trade data differs in important ways by chemistry, with Fig. 2, Fig. 3, and Fig. 5 shedding light on potential issues of data disclosure and supply chain transparency. The LFP-lithium supply chain has far less uncertainty in terms of unobservable or missing trade data than the supply chains for NMC: much of the production and trade data are observable for the entire lithium supply chain across material extraction, refining, and cathode production. In contrast, the non-lithium inputs into NMC have substantial uncertainty due to unobserved intranational flows, as well as both indirect and unobserved international trade. For example, China appears to source a substantial amount of refined cobalt from the DRC, but this amount of trade far exceeds the amount of refined cobalt production reported in the DRC. Other studies22,36 indicate that unrefined cobalt undergoes initial processing within the DRC and further refining in China, as companies based in China own nearly all of the mines in the DRC37. Detailed investigation of our data indicates that nearly all of this traded refined cobalt is categorized as scrap, which also points to potential misclassification of materials as well as high uncertainty in the conversion factors used to calculate material in exports. This finding may help shed light on ongoing transparency and trade tracking issues in the cobalt supply chain, as few material flow analysis studies consider scrap trade in their assessments (see Supplementary Text S3-3). Furthermore, a substantial portion of battery-grade nickel (about 20% of worldwide supply) is known to be mined and refined in Russia (or neighboring Finland) and used in the European market38,39, which is not reflected in the data either. These findings suggest that further emphasis should be placed on understanding how worldwide material production and trade is tracked, particularly around refined and scrap materials. Yet this knowledge of where the data is missing could be considered a further data point on the relative vulnerability when comparing between critical minerals - policymakers may want to choose to promote supply chains where the data is more well-understood and relative uncertainty is minimized.

A possible complementary policy action may be funding research, development, and demonstrations that aim to improve the performance of LFP batteries as well as the lithium extraction and refining processes, and thus reduce reliance on NMC and its compound material risks, as all four critical materials studied are required in order to produce NMC, creating multiple disruption paths. LFP also has an advantage given the relatively small overall physical quantity of materials that is present in the Lithium supply chain (comparing the scales in Figs. 2 and 3) and the fact that uncertainty appears to be the lowest in the Lithium supply chains, as described previously. Immense recoverable deposits of lithium are being rapidly discovered given the recent interest in the material46,47,48,49. In particular, the U.S. has substantial potential mining capacity (the Thacker Pass mine in Nevada is the third largest individual lithium resource in the world50), as well as existing capabilities in both mining and refining (Fig. 2). While choosing LFP may involve other technological and economic tradeoffs, a shift toward LFP may represent an opportunity to reduce disruption vulnerability, if lithium refining operations and LFP cathode production operations in particular are diversified away from the currently high concentration in China.