The battery manufacturing supply chain has three main parts: cell manufacturing, module manufacturing, and pack assembly (figure 3). These three stages can be conducted in the same place or broken up into two or (theoretically) three locations. For example, the Envision AESC plant in Sunderland, England, produces battery cells and modules, and assembles packs for the Nissan Leaf.25 However, Envision AESC also sends modules to Spain, where they are put into packs for electric vans. Additionally, Tesla produces modules and packs at its Gigafactory, which opened in 2017 in Nevada, using cells produced by Panasonic at the Gigafactory. However Tesla also produces modules and packs at its Fremont location using cells produced both internally and by Panasonic in Japan.26 Pack assembly tends to occur near the vehicle assembly location because of the cost of transporting battery packs.

The smallest, but most important, component of lithium-ion batteries is the electrochemical cell, which consists of three major parts: a cathode and an anode separated physically and connected electrically by an electrolyte.27 A battery's discharge comes from the diffusion of lithium ions from the anode to the cathode through the electrolyte.

Multiple cells in a case with terminals attached form a module.33 The number of cells per module varies by manufacturer and cell type. For example, Envision AESC uses four cells in the modules it produces for battery packs used by the Nissan Leaf, but Samsung SDI puts 12 cells into its modules. 34 Module production adds less value-added than the cell stage of production. Based on recent estimates, about 11 percent of the total cost of a finished lithium-ion battery pack comes from the module stage of production.35 Modules can be used in battery packs for different vehicles. As mentioned previously, Envision AESC's Sunderland plant produces modules for the Nissan Leaf (for which it assembles the packs on site), but it also uses these modules in Nissan's compact cargo van, the NV200.36 Battery modules are classified under the same statistical reporting no. as cells (8507.90.8000- battery parts). However, since most modules are made in the same facility as the battery pack, there is less trade in this component of the supply chain. Modules are assembled using cells that were either imported or made on site.

Electric Vehicle Trade 2017–19

Perhaps the biggest change in analyzing the electric vehicle industry is that, starting in 2017, the HS added a specific subheading for electric vehicles.39 This means it is now possible to more empirically examine and analyze trends in global EV trade, which is the furthest downstream aspect of the EV supply chain. Table 3 displays the top global importers of electric vehicles. Each of the top six largest importers have experienced a substantial growth in imports over the last three years, and total imports have more than tripled.

Global Lithium-Ion Battery Trade 2017–19 

For lithium-ion battery trade, the United States and Germany are beginning to import almost as much as China in recent years, but China still holds a large share of the world's exports. The situation regarding the HS classification remains unchanged over the last few years; HS subheading 8507.60 is where lithium-ion batteries for all uses are categorized for purposes of tracking international trade.53 However, the U.S. Harmonized Tariff System (HTS) has additional 10-digit statistical reporting numbers for imports that separate EV batteries from other lithium-ion batteries which makes it possible to analyze U.S. trade in EV batteries at a more precise level.54 As mentioned previously, battery cells are traded under a broader statistical reporting number for battery parts, which makes it difficult to track imports and exports of battery cells at a global level, since that trade data includes a lot of other products as well.

Internationally, while China (excluding Hong Kong) continues to lead the way in terms of imports of lithium-ion batteries in 2018 and 2019, German and U.S. imports grew significantly in recent years, and nearly equaled Chinese imports in 2019 (table 5). The rest of the top five importers include Hong Kong and Vietnam, and together the top five importers account for over 51 percent of all imports worldwide. However, it is difficult to know what portion of imports under this HS subheading were batteries for EVs versus lithium-ion batteries for some other purpose, because the HS subheadings do not differentiate on an international level. One way of perhaps seeing some evidence of different imports across countries though, is looking at unit prices for the value of imports in each country. China and Hong Kong have imports with unit prices of $2.58 and $3.26 respectively, while German and the U.S. imports are valued at $16.09 and $17.25 per unit in 2019.55 While neither of those prices correspond to entirely battery packs, it does suggest that the composition of Chinese imports are more skewed towards lower cost batteries for non-EVs.

U.S. Lithium-ion Battery Trade 2017–19 

For the United States, the majority of assembled EV battery imports continue to be imported from South Korea and the majority of battery parts are imported from Japan, while the majority of exports of lithium-ion batteries from the United States are destined for the Netherlands, Mexico and the United Kingdom (figures 7 and 8). For imports, the HTS breaks out HS 8507.60 into two 10-digit statistical reporting numbers, 8507.60.0010 and 8507.60.0020, to separate lithium-ion batteries for EVs from lithium-ion batteries for all other uses. CBP classifies only battery packs under 8507.60, and specifically should be imported under HTS 8507.60.0010. Battery cells and modules should enter under HTS 8507.90.8000 (battery parts).57

EV Battery Supply Chain Value-added

This paper uses an updated methodology based on Coffin and Horowitz (2018) to calculate value-added in the EV battery supply chain. This paper calculates the value-added of the EV battery (value of the battery less the cost of materials and purchased items) by splitting value between the country where the battery is assembled and the country where the battery's cells were made based on the split from the most recent version of the Argonne National Laboratory's estimates of EV battery costs (BATPAC).63 Further, the value-added of cell assembly (cell cost minus materials and purchased items) and pack assembly (cost of final pack to OEM less materials and purchased items) are calculated. Coffin and Horowitz (2018) removed the cost of materials, but not the cost of purchased items, and first removed the cost of materials and purchased items before making value-added comparisons of cells and batteries. This change in methodology reduces the share of value-added at the pack level in comparison to the cell level (figure 9). The main difference is in the value-added calculated for pack assembly, which was 25 percent of the cost of the battery under the old methodology and seven percent under the updated methodology.

U.S. EV sales and the U.S. EV battery supply chain have expanded significantly in recent years, while battery costs have continued to decline. U.S. cell and battery assembly accounts for a significant share of the value-added in vehicles produced in the United States. Future research should look at how much U.S. value-added is consumed in electric vehicles sold in other markets. Additionally, attempting to extract value-added from the cost of materials used in the making of cells and battery packs would provide a more thorough and complete view of the EV battery supply chain, and reveal which countries are most competitive at different points in the supply chain. Finally, research in later years will also have a better ability to look at value-added over time, allowing for an analysis of how investment in battery plants affects value-added.