Along with lithium, the demand for cobalt has also increased over the years. Cobalt is one of the raw materials required to fabricate super-alloys, hard metals, and catalysts. Cobalt was used in old generation LBs. However, the development of nickel decreased the use of cobalt in the modern generation of LBs. Nickel is a dominant metal in stainless steel production. Battery production, however, requires highly pure-grade nickel known as class-1. The class-1 category has a purity greater than 99.8%, and less than that will come in the class-2 category [41]. Nevertheless, class-2 nickels cannot be used without multistage processing. Since the demand for nickel cathodes is dominant in EV batteries, this is likely to continue until a new technology has evolved which can also participate as a high energy density battery. The Russia–Ukraine conflict has drastically affected the nickel supply chain globally, as Russia is the topmost supplier of class-1 battery-grade nickel. The demands for lithium, cobalt, and nickel are illustrated in Figure 5. The battery cell requires a high amount of cathode materials to compensate for the high energy density of graphite anodes [35]. Therefore, the cathode chemistry is crucial to determining battery performance and material requirements. Nickel and iron-based battery chemistries are explained in detail in the preceding chapter which explains both the advantages and shortcomings of those chemistries. Akin to cathodes, the demand for anode materials also increased alongside the battery demand in 2021. The critical material for producing battery anodes is graphite [42]. Graphite is found naturally and produced synthetically. China has an 80% global graphite supply, being dominant in the world. Countries like Tanzania, Mozambique, Canada, and Madagascar have some graphite stocks. The global demand for cathode and anode materials is shown in Figure 6.

EV Battery Supply Chain

The manufacturing process of EV batteries comprises several stages, where communication with each stage is through a supply chain. The supply chain consists of the steps starting from extracting the necessary mineral ores, refining, materials’ synthesis, battery cell production, and recycling [45]. In order to comprehend the futuristic possibilities of EV batteries, it is crucial to have knowledge of the various intermediate phases in the supply chain dynamics. Figure 8 depicts the schematic representation of the process flow of EV battery manufacturing. Figure 9 illustrates the geographically concentrated material required for the EV supply chain.

Global Leaders in EV Battery

While some countries are making headway in the battery value chain, China still dominates all EV battery supply chain stages. Figure 13 illustrates the different industries associated in the EV battery supply chain with their respective market share [4]. China accounts for 70% of its positive electrode materials and 85% of the global production capacity of negative electrode materials. They also process raw materials for lithium, cobalt, and graphite in China, which has half the world’s production capacity. Europe has produced a significant number of EVs in recent years but has been unable to keep up with the rest of the supply chain. The US still contributes little to the global EV battery supply chain. South Korea and Japan have significant stakes in the downstream raw material processing supply chain, especially in manufacturing cathode and anode materials. However, some caveats should be considered by the industries, such as the availability of technical resources, quality assurance and abundance of the critical battery materials, capital, and above-ground limitations. The attributes mentioned above are crucial since they can hinder the development process and undermine the reliability of EV batteries in the future.

Industrial Policies Outlook

In order to establish and grow their relevance within integrated battery supply chains, nations all over the world have adopted industrial policies. Leading EV manufacturing nations seek to move up the supply chain from producing EV components and vehicles to securing secure upstream supply and metal and mineral refining capabilities to curb the material shortage. Due to its forward-thinking policies supporting industries over the past ten years, China holds a 77 percent market share in the global EV industry. Along with Japan, which has 4% of the worldwide production capacity, Korea, which has 5%, has lately unveiled sizable financial initiatives to mark its presence in the battery and electric vehicle industries. Although the European Union has made significant investments in R&D over recent years, establishing the supply chains required for an EU battery manufacturing industry to evolve will probably take some time. Parallel to this, the US has already redoubled its efforts to develop indigenous supply chains for EVs and batteries, especially by exploiting its vital automotive and mineral resource industries. Some newcomers, such as Indonesia and Thailand, are strategically concentrating on producing batteries, electric vehicles, and the distribution of materials, maintaining close ties with the Asian market by utilizing their geographical advantages. They have attracted several investments from major EV producers due to their geolocation.