EV markets are growing exponentially, putting pressure on EV battery supply chains that already face challenges. The surge in demand for batteries relies on critical mineral extraction and refining processes that have environmental and social impacts (see charts page 12-14), while the global spread of extraction and refining operations are subject to geopolitical vulnerabilities (see graphic 6). The next few years present a unique window to ensure supply chains grow in a sustainable, just, and low-carbon manner. The policy and technology solutions for improving mining practices and developing circular economies for critical minerals are still in the early stages. As a result, EV supply chains are increasingly at the forefront of EV-related policymaking as jurisdictions seek to build resilience through diversification and promote the development of tools for tracing, reusing, and recycling EV batteries. While policymakers and vehicle manufacturers have started to address concerns related to EV battery supply chains, considerable advance- ment is still needed, and the support of major customers can be instrumental in accelerating progress.

Recognizing the strategic significance of domestic EV battery production, the U.S. has implemented several policies to strengthen supply chains and promote domestic manufacturing. The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act of 2021 allocated funding for critical minerals mining, processing, and research activities. In early 2022, the Biden administration invoked the Defense Production Act to encourage domestic battery investment and reduce dependence on imports. The Inflation Reduction Act then expanded and redefined EV purchase credits to require at least 40% of minerals in U.S.-made EV batteries be sourced domestically or from countries with free trade deals with the U.S.

While these steps support the expansion and reshoring of the EV battery industry, the supply chain remains global and considerable growth is still needed. Corporate actors have a significant opportunity to improve the social, environmental, and climate impact of EV battery production both within the U.S. and throughout the world. A summary of recommendations for how large fleets and other major corpora- tions can engage with policymakers, vehicle manufacturers.

Importantly, a number of factors could help reduce critical mineral demand, including: the evolution of low-mineral battery technologies; progress in battery recycling and critical minerals recovery; and/or mitigating vehicle demand with improved land use and increased transit and mobility options. Prioritizing policy interventions that reduce car dependency, ensure battery right-sizing and technology improve- ments, and promote battery recycling could significantly ease supply chain pressures in comparison to the more lithium-intensive scenarios. A key element of ensuring a sustainable EV transition will be reducing reliance on on-road transport.

Expanding the supply chain will take time and planning. Each component has a different lead time, with the development of new refining facilities and the establishment of new mines taking the longest. Once an extractable resource is identified, it can take from four to over 20 years to commence commercial produc- tion, and another 10 years to reach full production capacity. In the U.S., these delays are not necessarily due to permitting hurdles or agency review processes, but rather because initial mining proposals may have inadequately considered community or environmental harms. Local groups can challenge harmful proposals in court, which lengthens the average new mine lead time. As detailed further in the recom- mendations section, well-designed and well-communicated application processes paired with well-staffed review agencies can help ensure faster lead times for robust, low-harm proposals.