China produces three-quarters of all lithium-ion batteries and is home to 70% of production capacity for cathodes and 85% for anodes (both are key components of batteries). Over half of lithium, cobalt and graphite processing and refining capacity is located in China. Europe is responsible for over one-quarter of global EV assembly, but it is home to very little of the supply chain apart from cobalt processing at 20%. The United States has an even smaller role in the global EV battery supply chain, with only 10% of EV production and 7% of battery production capacity. Korea and Japan have considerable shares of the supply chain downstream of raw material processing, particularly in the highly technical production of cathode and anode material. Korea is responsible for 15% of global cathode material production capacity, while Japan accounts for 14% of cathode and 11% of anode material production. Korean and Japanese companies are also involved in the production of other battery components such as separators.

Battery and minerals supply chains will have to expand ten-fold to meet government EV ambitions

The rapid increase in EV sales during the pandemic tested the resilience of battery supply chains, and Russia's war in Ukraine has further exacerbated matters with prices of raw materials such as cobalt, lithium and nickel surging. In May 2022, lithium prices were more than seven times higher than in early 2021 due to unprecedented battery demand and a lack of sufficient investment in new supply capacity. Meanwhile, Russia supplies 20% of global high- purity nickel. Average battery prices fell by 6% to USD 132 per kilowatt-hour in 2021, a slower decline than the 13% drop the previous year. If metal prices in 2022 remain as high as in the first quarter, battery packs would become 15% more expensive than they were in 2021, all else being equal. However, the relative competitiveness of EVs remains unaffected given the current oil price environment.

Pressure on the supply of critical materials will continue to mount as road transport electrification expands to meet net zero ambitions. Demand for EV batteries will increase from around 340 GWh today, to over 3500 GWh by 2030 in the Announced Pledqes Scenario (APS). Cell components and their supply will also have to expand by the same amount. Additional investments are needed in the short- term, particularly in mining, where lead times are much longer than for other parts of the supply chain — in some cases requiring more than a decade from initial feasibility studies to production, and then several more years to reach nominal production capacity. Projected mineral supply until the end of the 2020s is in line with the demand for EV batteries in the Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS). But the supply of some minerals such as lithium would need to rise by up to one-third by 2030 to satisfy the pledges and announcements for EV bateries in the APS. For example, demand for lithium — the commodity with the largest projected demand-supply gap — is projected to increase sixfold to 500 kilotonnes by 2030 in the APS, requiring the equivalent of 50 new average-sized mines.

China's Donminaton of Supply Chain

China dominates production at every stage of the EV battery supply chain downstream of mining. Three-quarters of battery cell production capacity is in China, with the same for the specialised cathode and anode material production, for which China accounts for 70% of cathode and 85% of anode material global production capacity. Over half of global raw material processing for lithium, cobalt and graphite also occurs in China. With 80% of global graphite mining, China dominates the entire graphite anode supply chain end-to-end. Europe is responsible for over a quarter of EV production, but holds very little of the rest of the supply chain apart from cobalt processing at 20%, mostly plants in Finland. The United States has a smaller role in the global EV battery supply chain, with only 10% of EV production and 7% of battery production capacity. Both Korea and Japan have considerable shares of the supply chain downstream of raw material processing, particularly in cathode and anode material production. Korea is responsible for 15% of cathode, and 3% of anode material production capacity while Japan accounts for 14% and 11%, respectively.

Anode material production is likely to continue to be dominated by China as it holds the entire supply chain from mining through to anode material production. In addition, almost all of the top-ten anode material production companies are Chinese, which makes new anode production overseas largely dependent on foreign investment by these companies. Moreover, graphite anode material prices are not high enough to significantly incentivise new production capacity. Although there are exceptions, such as Nouveau Monde Graphite which is constructing both a graphite mine and graphite anode active material plant in Canada.

China's leading role in EV battery production capacity is a direct result of more than a decade of policies that prioritise the development of an integrated domestic supply chain. China has long viewed batteries as a strategic industrial sector.

With this focus on battery supply chains came a host of strategic policy announcements and blueprints. One included the release of the National Blueprint for Lithium Batteries (2021-2030). which elaborates a vision to establish secure battery materials and technology supply chains within the country. It aims to set guidance for policy makers, industry and investors for the long term by creating goals across the entire supply chain. These include: securing upstream raw and critical minerals and materials processing base; creating domestic electrode, cell and pack manufacturing sectors; end-of-life critical material recycling; and R&D efforts on battery technology development.

China continues to dominate in the mid- to downstream EV battery supply chain, though it currently owns less than 25% of upstream mininq capacitv.