An overview of electric vehicle battery materials, supply chains, key challenges, and current federal government actions.

Transition minerals and battery supply chains:
Many challenges with battery supply chains are tied to extracting and processing of five minerals used in many of today’s leading electric vehicle (EV) batteries: lithium, nickel, cobalt, manganese, and graphite.

These five battery minerals, a handful of other critical minerals, and a few rare earth elements and other non-critical minerals like copper make up the “transition minerals” that we need for a zero-emission vehicle (ZEV) economy. 

Mineral needs for electric vehicle batteries will significantly drive overall market demand for transition minerals over the coming decades.

Low domestic supply of EV battery minerals and recycled materials for battery manufacturing is a common concern. Transition mineral reserves are highly concentrated outside of the United States; 50% of global lithium and cobalt reserves are in Chile and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) respectively.

Midstream supply chain activities, like mineral refining and battery cell manufacturing, are also concentrated in a small number of countries, largely outside the U.S. So, even if the U.S. mined the mineral resources it does have, they would currently need to be shipped to other countries for processing.

Shifting extraction to the U.S. could potentially reduce these geopolitical risks and be an improvement in safety standards and health protections for workers compared to many countries. However, the combination of insufficient National Environmental Policy Act, or NEPA, processes and outdated mining laws in the U.S. prioritize extraction over other land-uses, monitor water use and contamination poorly and without independent parties, and do not require stringent enough mining waste and tailings management or provide sufficient information about potential impacts to communities.

Material substitution and technological improvements are key factors in reducing demand for minerals; improved battery chemistries can provide the same amount of energy storage with much less mineral inputs or with different minerals that are more abundant and less impactful. Advanced manufacturing processes can reduce inputs needed by improving material efficiencies during battery production.

Additionally, reusing and recycling old batteries can reduce the need for newly mined materials—also known as a circular economy.

Reducing demand and limiting impacts 
We need to continue to push for a net-zero economy in order to avoid the worst impacts of the climate crisis and protect the communities that bear the brunt of these impacts. 
