Global low-carbon contracts, along with the energy and environmental crises, have encouraged the rapid development of the power battery industry. As the current first choice for power batteries, lithium-ion batteries have overwhelming advantages.

The explosive growth of the demand for power lithium-ion batteries will likely cause crises such as resource shortages and supply–demand imbalances.

The results show that the processes from resources to market of the power lithium-ion battery industry are highly concentrated with growing trends.

The proportion of the top three power lithium-ion battery-producing countries grew from 71.79% in 2016 to 92.22% in 2020, increasing by 28%. The top three power lithium-ion battery-demand countries accounted for 83.07% of the demand in 2016 and 88.16% in 2020.

The increasing concentration increases the severity of the supply risk. The results also imply that different processes are concentrated within different countries or regions, and the segmentation puts the development of the power lithium-ion battery industry at significant risk.

We adopt qualitative and quantitative research methods to comprehensively evaluate the power lithium-ion battery supply and demand risks by analyzing the global material flow of these batteries.

The supply of key mineral resources for power lithium-ion battery materials is highly concentrated in a few individual countries and regions, making access to this supply somewhat fragile; any major disruption could jeopardize the production volume of power lithium-ion batteries.

The sustainable development of power lithium-ion batteries is an essential foundation for the sustainable development of the new-energy vehicle industry.

Global electric vehicle sales are forecast to grow at a compound annual growth rate of nearly 20% over the next decade. The annual need for power lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles is predicted to reach nearly 2100 gigawatt-hours (GWh) by 2030.

Lithium: The world’s lithium reserves are highly concentrated in Chile (37%), Australia (25%), Argentina (11%), and China (8%). Cobalt: The world’s cobalt reserves are highly concentrated in Congo (Kinshasa) (48%), Australia (18%), Indonesia (7%), and Cuba (6%). Nickel: The global nickel reserves are relatively less concentrated, with significant reserves in Indonesia (21%), Australia (20%), Brazil (16%), Russia (7%), and New Caledonia (7%).

The high concentration of each process in the power lithium-ion battery supply chain will significantly increase the supply risk. The front-end key raw material lithium is concentrated in Australia and Chile, cobalt in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Australia, and nickel in Australia and Indonesia.

Through dynamic material flow analysis, we found an overview of the global flow of power lithium-ion batteries: The total shipments of global power lithium-ion batteries increased from 47.5 GWh in 2016 to 192.9 GWh in 2020, with a 5-year growth rate of 306.11%.

If the existing constraints and problems are not addressed, the vast market of power lithium batteries may experience severe limitations. With the continuous evolution of technology, supply risk and overwhelming environmental risk have become the most significant constraints on the future development of power batteries.

The supply and demand balance curve in economics reveals the law of market economy development and usually shows a complex dynamic balance phenomenon. There are already relatively mature models (Whelan and Msefer 1996) for this process. 

There are also works of literature on the supply and demand bottleneck of lithium-ion batteries (Olivetti et al. 2017) and the impact of lithium recycling on the supply and demand balance (Miedema and Moll 2013). 

In our model, according to the material balance principle in material flow methodology, we chose a simplified and balanced supply and demand system: determining the point where the supply and demand curves intersect, where they are equal. The excess on both sides is taken as the stock accumulation share. 

As we have done everything possible to find all data with the uniform unit for each process (the calculation unit is GWh), so we did not need a particular conversion factor for our calculations.

For the critical raw material supply risk analysis, the core elements nickel, cobalt, and lithium were analyzed. Thanks to the rapid development of electric vehicles, the proportion of lithium used in batteries worldwide has increased yearly, from 39% in 2016 to 71% in 2020, doubling in 5 years. 

With the rapid increase in the number of electric vehicles anticipated for the future, it is predicted that the proportion of mined lithium used in batteries will continue to increase, probably exceeding 90%. Therefore, analyzing the overall situation of global lithium resources is roughly equivalent to studying the lithium resources for batteries, the same goes for cobalt and nickel; the details are shown below (Fig. 2):

