Thursday, December 8, 2022 – According to one study, the fetuses of women working in fields in the Gambia showed concerning increases in heart rates and decreases in blood flow to the placenta as temperatures rose.

Hundreds of millions of people, including mothers, are expected to be exposed to extreme heat worldwide, even if global temperatures remain below the internationally agreed-upon limit of 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels.

The study may help to understand why expecting moms suffer from heat stress. Two possible explanations are sweat, which causes dehydration, and diverting blood and oxygen from the placenta to the mother's skin to cool the body.

The researchers also discovered that increasing a measure of heat stress by 1 degree Celsius increased the risk of fetal distress by 17%. Even after accounting for the rise in the woman's temperature and heart rate, it increased by 12%, indicating that other factors were affecting the fetus.

Source: The Guardian 
Friday, September 30, 2022 – Four Ukraine regions that were under Russian occupation have been formally annexed by Russia in a move that received wide condemnation from the international community. On Friday, the President of Russia, Vladimir Putin, signed “accession treaties” with the region’s Moscow-installed leaders at a ceremony that was held in the Kremlin’s opulent St George’s Hall.

In a reaction from Kyiv, they launched a new, fast-track bid to join the NATO alliance. The President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, said Ukraine had long been a “de-facto” member of the security bloc. He also added that Ukraine is taking a decisive step by signing Ukraine's application for accelerated accession to NATO."

Jens Stoltenberg, NATO Secretary-General, was reluctant to be drawn on the bid. He said the decision lies with the bloc’s 30 members. He does, however, condemn the fact that Moscow annexed some of the Ukrainian territories and tagged the move as “the most serious escalation since the start of the war.”

Source: BBC
Monday, December 5, 2022 - Two Russian airbases, far from the frontlines, had been rocked by explosions as it appeared that Kyiv had launched a pre-emptive strike on bombers that Kremlin had used to cripple the electrical grid in Ukraine.

The Ministry of Defence in Russia confirmed the attack on Monday, claiming that two of its airplanes were damaged when it intercepted two Ukrainian drones. 

Another explosion took place at the Dyagilevo military airbase near Ryaza, a city that is less than 150 miles from Moscow. A fuel truck exploded, resulting in three deaths, and five others were wounded.

The Kremlin confirmed that it had already briefed President Vladimir Putin of the incidents. The president was reopening the Crimean Bridge on Monday, where an explosion that happened in October raised doubts that Russia could protect the peninsula it occupied from Ukraine in 2014.

Source: The Guardian 
The U.S. Department of Energy on Wednesday selected 20 companies to receive a combined $2.8 billion for projects that expand domestic battery manufacturing and minerals processing necessary to support the transition to electric vehicles

DOE said 21 total projects span a dozen states and will focus on the extraction and processing of lithium, graphite and other battery materials, along with component manufacturing and demonstration projects, including manufacturing components from recycled materials.

EV sales are growing quickly, and the Biden administration has taken steps to develop a domestic battery supply chain. “Producing advanced batteries and components here at home will accelerate the transition,” Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm said.

According to DOE, almost all lithium, graphite, battery-grade nickel and other materials are “produced abroad, and China controls the supply chains.”

Electrification advocates said the funding represents a real commitment from the federal government to securing domestic supply chains.

“This is what getting serious about competing with China, developing a robust domestic electric vehicle supply chain, and leading the world in clean transportation technology looks like,” Zero Emission Transportation Association Executive Director Joe Britton said in a statement.

Among the projects that will receive funding, DOE said:

American Battery Technology will receive $57.7 million for development of a commercial-scale facility to demonstrate a new process for manufacturing battery cathode grade lithium hydroxide, near Tonopah, Nevada;
Piedmont Lithium will receive $141.7 million to develop a facility in McMinn County, Tennessee, capable of producing 30,000 metric tons per year of lithium hydroxide for the domestic battery and EV market, “doubling the lithium hydroxide production capacity currently available in the United States”;
6k Inc. will receive $50 million to develop domestic production of multiple battery chemistries while also demonstrating the ability to recycle end-of-life batteries, “freeing the U.S. from its current dependence on conflict nations.” A final decision on site locations is expected in December.

According to DOE, the funding announced Wednesday will support development of enough battery-grade lithium for 2 million EVs annually. The agency also said the funding is the “first phase” of $7 billion provided by the bipartisan infrastructure law to build out the domestic battery supply chain.

DOE also announced the launch of the American Battery Material Initiative, a dedicated effort to align dozens of federal programs in growing the battery supply chain.

The initiative will “coordinate domestic and international efforts to accelerate permitting for critical minerals projects,” DOE said, while also noting its commitment to the environment and outreach to impacted communities.