Tuesday, October 18, 2022 - The Minister for Interior of Germany has fired the country's cybersecurity chief after being alleged to have turned a blind eye to a firm linked to Russian security circles.

Reports from security sources confirm that the President of the German Federal Office for Information, Arne Schönbohm, was relieved of his duties immediately on Tuesday. 

Schönbohm, who has been in charge of the agencies since 2016, overseeing the computer and communication security of the government, came under scrutiny after his connections to a Russian company in a previous job were brought to light in a late-night satire show by Jan Böhmermann, who is a German comedian.

Before becoming the Head of the Government cybersecurity agency, Schönbohm had helped found the similarly named Cyber Security Council Germany; a group registered as a voluntary association.

Source: The Guardian
Saturday, October 15, 2022 - The military officials, political parties, and civil society leaders of Burkina Faso officially designated army captain Ibrahim Traore as the country's transitional President two weeks after he staged the second coup in Burkina Faso this year to seize power.

About 300 officials are meeting over two days in the capital, Ouagadougou, to lay out plans to return the West African country to constitutional rule.

Burkina Faso has been battling a violent insurgency waged by groups linked to Al Qaeda and Islamic State that started in neighboring Mali in 2012 and has since then spread to other countries South of the Sahara Desert. Thousands have been killed due to the violence, which displaced nearly two million and fueled political instability.

Traore has committed himself to democratic transition timeliness agreed between his predecessor, Paul-Henri Damiba, and the Economic Community of West African State (ECOWAS) to have constitutional order restored by July 2024

Source: Reuters
Saturday, October 29, 2022 – The Russian Minister for Defence announced that it would suspend its participation in the brokered grain export deal of the United Nations with Ukraine after the Crimean city of Sevastopol was attacked by a drone. Though the report from Russia cannot be independently verified, Russia blames Kyiv for the attacks.

On Saturday, Russia was accused by a top Ukrainian official of inventing "fictitious terrorist attacks" on its facilities in Crimea, and Moscow is also accused of blackmail. In a telegram post, the head Ukrainian President's office, Andrii Yerma, blames Russia for "nuclear blackmail, energy blackmail, and food blackmail."

In July, Ministers from Ukraine and Russia signed an agreement brokered by the United Nations and Turkey following months of negotiations. Russia promised to unblock the Black Sea's port to allow the safe passage of grain and oilseeds, some of the most important exports of Ukraine.

Source: CNN
Jeep maker Stellantis NV on Monday announced it has signed a non-binding memorandum of understanding with a supplier for raw materials needed to build electric-vehicle batteries.

The agreement between Stellantis and GME Resources Limited — which owns a nickel and cobalt project in western Australia — is the latest example of automakers moving to shore up supplies of key raw materials deep into the supply chain to meet the capacity for their EV plans.

The deal with GME is for the "future sale of quantities of battery grade nickel and cobalt sulphate products" from the NiWest Nickel-Cobalt Project, according to a news release. That project is expected to produce approximately 90,000 tons per year of battery-grade nickel and cobalt sulphate for electric vehicles. A feasibility study for the project is slated to start this month, according to Stellantis and GME.

"Every day, Stellantis is working to provide our customers clean, safe, affordable, cutting-edge freedom of mobility," Maxime Picat, chief purchasing and supply chain officer for the transatlantic automaker, said in a statement. "Securing the raw material sources and battery supply will strengthen Stellantis' value chain for electric vehicle battery production and equally important, help the company achieve its aggressive decarbonization target."

Stellantis has said it plans to transition 100% of its passenger sales mix in Europe to battery electric vehicles by 2030. And by that time, it expects for half of its passenger car and light-duty truck sales mix in the U.S. to be battery electric. It aims to be carbon neutral by 2038.

In a statement, Paul Kopejtka, managing director of GME, said that a definitive agreement with Stellantis "would be a critical step in being able to progress the NiWest Project through to commercial operations" and said that GME hopes the MOU is "the first step in a long-term partnership."

Across the industry, automakers have been working to secure raw materials for EV batteries in response to government policies and growing consumer demand for all-electric vehicles.

Earlier this year, Stellantis inked deals with Vulcan Energy and Controlled Thermal Resources for supplies of lithium hydroxide for Europe and North America, respectively.

General Motors Co. earlier this year announced new supply agreements that it said would help secure all of the raw materials it needs for EV batteries to meet a 2025 goal of having 1 million units of annual EV capacity in North America. And in July, Ford Motor Co. executives detailed several deals the company reached to shore up raw materials for battery production as they announced that the automaker had secured 100% of the battery capacity it needs to hit annual EV production capacity of 600,000 units by the end of next year.

