"Did I just survive a massacre?" asked a young Sudanese man when he answered my call not long after security forces had opened fire on protesters in downtown Khartoum.

Known by his Twitter name Bashy, he told how one of seven people had died last Monday afternoon in the capital.
"I was filming the protesters and walking when a bullet penetrated his chest; he died in front of me. That could have been me!"
In his mid-twenties, and usually with a smile on his face, Bashy has been protesting on the streets for the past three months.
Like many of his contemporaries, he is furious that the military seized power last October, just over two years into an agreement between the generals and a civilian coalition to share power.

Life had been improving and the economic crisis easing as civilian Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok brought Sudan in from the cold following sanctions imposed on the country during the long rule of Omar al-Bashir, accused of using the country to sponsor terrorism.
AFP Sudanese buy bread from a bakery in the capital Khartoum - 11 October 2021AFP
The economic gains of the two-year power-sharing transition have been forfeited by the coup
The former president's military allies ousted him in April 2019 in the wake of mass protests, but they then showed their reluctance to share power with those on the streets when they turned their guns on them in a devastating massacre two months later.
The outcry that followed forced the generals to agree to the transition - but as many suspected, the military was never happy with the arrangement, and the latest coup, they say, has proved them right.
'Vicious cycle'
Bashy, who has been on the front lines of the recent demonstrations documenting the rallies and marches on his social media feeds, says those on the neighbourhood committees co-ordinating the fightback on the streets are mainly young.

AFP Young people play football in the Sahafa neighbourhood in the south of Khartoum, Sudan - 1 November 2021AFP
More than half of Sudan's population have largely only known life under Omar al-Bashir
In fact it is estimated that 61% of Sudan's population is under the age of 25 and they are fed up with what Bashy terms "strong-man rule".
It is a generational conflict with the young wanting a more equitable, peaceful, and democratic future.
"We are different to previous generations," says Bashy.
"We want to stop the cycle, this vicious cycle of military coups and authoritarianism. That is why we protest - because we wish to see the end of this cycle."

Loyalists reinstated
The protesters feel they have legitimacy on their side - and the junta has indeed been dealt a blow by the resignation earlier this month of Mr Hamdok.
In the aftermath of the coup he was put under house arrest - but then signed a new deal with the generals - something his civilian coalition, the Forces for Freedom and Change (FFC), rejected.
Getty Images Gen Abdel Fattah al-Burhan in December 2021Getty Images
Gen Abdel Fattah al-Burhan's attempt to bring the civilian PM on board has backfired
He only lasted six weeks before realising he could not work without the political backing of the FFC.
Some of the economic reforms he brought in - applauded by the international community - were painful for everyone, but his attempts to dismantle the old guard's hold on the economy also ruffled feathers.

Indeed, this week, Sudan's military ruler Gen Abdel Fattah al-Burhan finally appointed a caretaker administration, which includes some of those Bashir loyalists, to steer the country to elections.
Nidal, whose name has been changed to protect her identity, is a seasoned protester - first taking to the streets during the Arab spring when people began to brave the streets.
AFP Sudanese demonstrators carry posters of killed protesters in Khartoum - 30 December 2021AFP
More than 70 people have died and thousands have been injured since October
She believes the military's harsh treatment of the protesters - more than 70 have died so far - is forcing those organising the demonstrations to become more tactical - or more cohesive.
"You can sense the military is doing us a favour - the more of us they kill, helps us the people to come together, reshape our nationalist sentiment and foster a new patriotism for building a new country."

Since independence the armed forces have monopolised any sense of patriotism.
But their actions - in particular those of the former paramilitary unit, the Rapid Support Forces led by Mohamed Hamdan "Hemeti" Dagolo - and their role in the massacre of June 2019 means much of the respect they were once afforded has been lost by young Sudanese.
For Nidal, the demonstrations have had a devastating effect on her family: one of her 18-year-old cousins was shot dead by soldiers in December.
When I spoke to her late one evening this week she had just been to various barricades in Khartoum to round up her many other cousins to check they were all safe.
Yet the situation has just made them all the more determined - because they feel they can really make a difference.

"I am ready to die," she told me.
Trust broken
In mid-January, the junta announced that it was setting up a counter-terrorism force to deal with the security challenges posed by the protests - which are also hitting the economy.
Viewing peaceful protesters as terrorists is seen by many as taking a leaf out of the Bashir-era rule book.
EPA Protesters by bricks at a barricade in Khartoum, Sudan - January 2022EPA
The barricades are organised by neighbourhood committees - and some are blocking key roads
In their statements, the authorities note how many policemen are injured on duty during the nationwide protests - with little regard to the death of demonstrators.

This week, the death of a police brigadier general has been blamed on the protesters, but activists dispute this and say it is being used as an excuse to unleash yet more force.
And this week's violence came after an Al Jazeera channel that had been carrying live feeds of the demonstrations and rallies was banned.
The crackdown on media freedoms has become unrelenting: journalists have been beaten and assaulted, media offices attacked and international media barred.
There has been a flurry of diplomatic activity to break the stalemate, including a consultation process launched by the UN.
But many Sudanese have little faith in the UN, given it backed the failed November pact entered into by Mr Hamdok.

And the protesters just want the military out of any government as they feel the generals are not to be trusted.
"No negotiations, no partnership, no legitimacy" is the rallying cry of the current pro-democracy movement.
Against this backdrop, the Friends of Sudan met this week to try and hammer out a solution.
This group includes the US, the UK, European states and junta allies Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.
Yet both Bashy and Nidal sound unimpressed by such efforts - and they agree the counter-terror force will not cow them.

"We are world class in peaceful resistance, Monday's massacre will not deter us," Bashy said.
"We are not letting them take our blood, sweat and tears and use it for their own gains."
Source: BBC
US President Joe Biden has warned there is a "distinct possibility" Russia might invade Ukraine next month, the White House says.
Russia meanwhile says it sees "little ground for optimism" in resolving the crisis after the US rejected Russia's main demands.
The build-up of tens of thousands of Russian troops on Ukraine's borders in recent weeks has stoked fears of an invasion.
Russia denies it is planning an attack.
The US president made the comments in a telephone conversation with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Thursday.
"President Biden said that there is a distinct possibility that the Russians could invade Ukraine in February," White House National Security Council spokesperson Emily Horne said.
"He has said this publicly and we have been warning about this for months."
During their talk, President Biden "reaffirmed the readiness of the United States along with its allies and partners to respond decisively if Russia further invades Ukraine", a White House statement said.
Mr Zelensky said they "discussed recent diplomatic efforts on de-escalation and agreed on joint actions for the future".
Axios, citing unnamed sources, suggested the two disagreed on how imminent the threat was. Some military experts suggest Russia may be waiting for the ground in Ukraine to freeze so they can move in heavy equipment.
Another important phone call will take place on Friday, when French President Emmanuel Macron speaks directly with Russia's Vladimir Putin.
If Russia were to invade Ukraine, it would not be the first time. Russia annexed Ukraine's southern Crimea peninsula in 2014. It is also backing rebels who seized large swathes of the eastern Donbas region soon afterwards, and some 14,000 people have died in fighting there.
Also on Thursday, the US threatened to halt the opening of a key pipeline that would send Russian gas to Western Europe, if Russia invades Ukraine.
Nord Stream 2 would run from Russia to Germany, and on Thursday officials in Berlin said the project could face sanctions if Russia attacks.
Western allies say they will target Russia's economy if it invades, and the latest comments signal a hardening of their stance.
The 1,225km (760-mile) pipeline took five years to build and cost $11bn (£8bn). The energy project, which would run under the Baltic Sea, is designed to double Russia's gas exports to Germany.
But as yet it has not started operating, as regulators said in November it does not comply with German law and suspended its approval.
Russia denies any plans to invade but last month made wide-ranging security demands from the West, including that Ukraine never be allowed to join the Nato military alliance.
The US rejected this key demand, while offering what it called a "serious diplomatic path forward" to Moscow.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Thursday that the US response left "little ground for optimism", but added that "there always are prospects for continuing a dialogue, it's in the interests of both us and the Americans".
The proposals will not be made public, but US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the document made their "core principles" clear, including Ukraine's sovereignty and its right to choose to be part of security alliances such as Nato.
Russia's foreign minister Sergei Lavrov said the formal response does not address Russia's "main concern" about the alliance's expansion.
Monday, February 28, 2022 – Cyclone Batsirai blasted into the Indian Ocean island late Saturday, hammering the eastern shoreline until it moved away late Sunday, killing at least ten people, displacing 43,000 people, and destroying some towns and villages. Madagascar, which has a population of roughly 30 million people, was already suffering from the repercussions of Cyclone Ana, which had killed 55 people and displaced 130,000 just two weeks before.

Officials stated that emergency responders were struggling to access sections of Madagascar damaged by a cyclone over the weekend because many roads and bridges were unusable, and rising river levels threatened to displace even more people. 

The official disaster relief agency in Madagascar said it was supplying basic necessities to 43,000 people in 180 temporary shelters. At the same time, the World Food Programme claimed it had begun giving hot meals to 4,000 evacuated individuals.

Source: CNN
As global electric vehicles (EVs) sales in 2021 exceeded 6.6 million units and major countries set timetables for achieving carbon neutrality, many businesses have joined, or are eyeing, the burgeoning industry of alternative fuel vehicles.

A DIGITIMES Asia recent report, "2022 EV battery value-chain outlook in Asia," provides a comprehensive overview of Taiwan's EV battery industry. Below is the summary of the report.

Amid the fierce competition of foreign tech giants, Taiwanese firms are striving to carve out their niches and ally with the best possible partners. A dozen materials and battery developers are suppliers of EV-related developers overseas, although it is uncertain how vital their roles may be.

Meanwhile, traditional IT and manufacturing firms in Taiwan have established battery-related units or EV alliances, reflecting their desire for industrial transformation. At this stage, public transport tools and e-scooters are prioritized in pertinent funding programs.

Compared with industrial sectors, Taiwan's government appears less active in the energy transition movement.

Reluctant to presenting a timetable for banning fossil fuel cars, the government opts for smaller steps, such as funding the installations of e-scooter charging stations and the development of solid-state batteries. Some business leaders in Taiwan have urged the government to take bolder actions, such as improving EV charging infrastructure and the nation's electricity grids.
