Burkina Faso: Military coup prompts fears of further instability
President Roch Kabore was deposed amid anger over violence, but analysts say the military coup could unleash more insecurity.
The military coup deposing Burkina Faso’s President Roch Kabore is the fourth in a string of recent military takeovers in West and Central Africa, prompting fears of further regional instability.

Mutinous soldiers demanding more support for their fight against armed groups announced on Monday that they had toppled the democratically elected president.

While the takeover sparked widespread international condemnation, it was greeted with significant support in Burkina Faso.

“Kabore lost the confidence of Burkinabe citizens, there is no doubt in that,” Daniel Eizenga, an analyst at the Africa Center for Strategic Studies in Washington, told Al Jazeera.

Yet, whether the takeover can deliver on the popular demand for better security or provide “an opportunity for armed insurgency groups to further build on their operations in the area” remains to be seen, Eizenga added.

Since 2015, Burkina Faso has been fighting armed campaigns by groups linked to al-Qaeda and ISIL (ISIS) that have spilled over from neighbouring Mali.

The number of attacks has risen from nearly 500 in 2020 to more than 1,150 in 2021, placing the country well ahead of Mali’s 684 and Niger’s 149 violent events.

Local security forces and civilians have been the primary victims of the violence by armed groups. More than 1.4 million people have been displaced by the conflict, according to estimates by the United Nations’ refugee agency, the UNHCR.

Alex Vines, who heads the Africa Programme at Chatham House in London, told Al Jazeera the increase in violence in Burkina Faso was preceded by a failed coup in September 2015 targeting the transitional government that followed the resignation of longtime leader Blaise Compaoré.

In its aftermath, “the intelligence and security networks were purged and greatly weakened in a response to that coup attempt”, Vines said.

“So you had a very weakened state in terms of its security apparatus, which provided an easier route for some of these groups to move in.”

Kabore’s People’s Movement for Progress (MPP) party inherited this frail security apparatus when it was elected with 53 percent of the vote in Burkina Faso’s first-ever electoral transfer of power in November 2015.

Since then, armed groups – including the Group for the Support of Islam and Muslims, or JNIM, which is aligned with al-Qaeda, and the Islamic State in the Greater Sahara (ISGS), an offshoot of ISIL – have asserted further control in rural areas and carried out attacks on the capital.

Last year, frustration over the rapidly deteriorating security situation reached a boiling point. In June, Burkina Faso witnessed the worst attack by armed groups in the history of the country when more than 130 civilians were killed in a three-hour onslaught on Solhan, a remote village in Yagha province on the eastern border with Niger, prompting calls to intensify counterterrorism efforts.

No one claimed responsibility for the killings, but government officials said it was the work of ISIL affiliates.

“I bow before the memory of the hundred civilians killed in this barbaric attack,” Kabore said in a televised address as he announced a three-day national mourning period.

A further blow to Kabore’s leadership came in November, when an attack on a gendarmerie post in the northern town of Inata killed 49 officers and four civilians.

The Inata attack “spelled Kabore’s demise”, according to Constantin Gouvy, an analyst at Clingendael’s Conflict Research Unit in The Hague.

Reports that officers had gone for weeks without food provisions and adequate equipment sparked protests and widespread popular indignation. Additionally, in an effort to quell the calls for his resignation and shore up support within the army, Kabore appointed Lieutenant-Colonel Paul-Henri Sandaogo Damiba as commander of Burkina Faso’s third military region, tasked with protecting the capital Ouagadougou from attacks.

Ironically, Gouvy said, the man called upon by Kabore to rescue his democratically elected government turned out to be the leader of the military coup that deposed him on Monday.

Kabore’s whereabouts remain unknown, despite statements by the military government that detained officials were being held “in a secure place”.

Damiba was named the leader of the newly established Patriotic Movement for Safeguard and Restoration (MPSR).

In contrast to the deposed president, Damiba has sought to present himself as an expert in countering terrorism. A graduate of the military academy in Paris, he is the author of a book titled West African Armies and Terrorism: Uncertain Responses? in which he analysed anti-terrorism strategies in the Sahel region and their limits.

However, his plan for battling the armed groups remains unclear.

“There is a lot that is still unknown, including how he justifies that he would be better at dealing with the situation than Kabore,” Gouvy said.

“He has military experience but it’s unlikely that just a change in leadership will solve the issue,” including the army’s funding problem, he added.

‘No guarantee’ for rights

Kabore’s removal was welcomed by hundreds of Burkinabe on the streets of Ouagadougou on Tuesday. Among the crowd, some also welcomed the coup as a liberation from the country’s former colonial power, France.

Paris had expanded its military cooperation with Burkina Faso at President Kabore’s request, including the country in its Operation Barkhane battling armed groups in Africa’s Sahel region. Its intervention sparked some criticism among citizens and state officials in Burkina Faso.

Pro-military demonstrators also held Russian flags, calling for an intervention similar to that that occurred in the Central African Republic, where Russian mercenaries fought off an armed uprising last year.

Russia has also admitted providing military assistance through state channels in Mali, despite Bamako denying the presence of Russian mercenaries from the Wagner Group following allegations by Western powers.

No indication has yet emerged as to whether Damiba may turn to Russia for security cooperation. However, Vines said Moscow has been looking to position itself as an alternative to Western intervention in a context where discontent is simmering.

“Burkina Faso could be a logical place for the Russians to also work with the junta,” Vines said, adding however that Moscow risks becoming enmeshed in the politics of authoritarian regimes and progressively isolated by democratic governments in the continent.

The 15-country West African bloc the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) will hold a special session on Friday to discuss how to respond to the fourth military coup in the past year, after Mali, Chad and Guinea.

“There is concern among ECOWAS members that this [trend] could spread even further,” Gouvy said, adding that the bloc is likely carefully considering its toolbox.

Harsh sanctions imposed on Mali after coup leader Assimi Goita announced a five-year delay to return to constitutional rule turned out to be “a double-edged sword” as they have lent the military government more support, Gouvy said.

Damiba has pledged to return to Burkina Faso constitutional rule “within a reasonable time”.

But according to Eizenga, the coup marks a dangerous departure from the democratic path the country had embarked on after 27 years of Compaoré’s rule.

“People [in Burkina Faso] felt like they had been demanding change and they hadn’t been receiving it and that’s a policy failure,” Eizenga said. “But coups d’etat fundamentally disrupt [the democratic process] by putting unelected officials in power by force.”

“There is then no guarantee for citizens’ rights and their civil liberties.”



Beginning on January 5, North Korea began a new round of missile tests over the Sea of Japan. These new tests seem targeted toward circumventing American and Japanese missile defense technologies deployed in the region, according to statements made by North Korean state media and analyses by Western observers. Some suspect this new round of tests is meant to preempt a new push for diplomatic engagement with the U.S., which has leveraged severe sanctions against the country due to its missile programs.
Source: BBC
Thursday, February 17, 2022 – A wave of a landslide caused by heavy rains caused massive casualties in the Brazilian city of Petrópolis, with the fatality count standing at 110 people. 

According to the Civil Defense of Rio, another 134 persons remain missing, and the continuous torrential rains that prompted the evacuation of another area in the city on Thursday may cause more casualties as the rainfall on Tuesday afternoon alone was greater than the historical average for the whole month of February.

Search and rescue crews were forced their way through sludge, searching for survivors amid the wreckage. The National Civil Defense stated it had saved 24 people but over 439 individuals had lost their houses.

Brazil's President Jair Bolsonaro, who was in Moscow when the landslides began on Tuesday before traveling to Hungary, is scheduled to visit Petrópolis on Friday. He had directed ministers and requested "urgent help" for the victims.

Source: CNN
The COVID-19 pandemic has had the dual effect of raising climate ambition and shedding light on the complexity of global supply chains. At the intersection of these phenomena is the realization that even as companies produce “zero-emissions” final products, they jeopardize the legitimacy of the energy transition by using manufacturing processes that are far from clean. Amidst global calls to “electrify everything,” the European Union (EU) has initiated a novel effort to clean up one of the most important drivers of economic decarbonization: the battery.

The EU’s pending Batteries Regulation exemplifies how the technology most important to electrification can set global standards for supply chain sustainability, despite a manufacturing process defined by high carbon intensity, environmental risks, and—in some cases—human rights abuses. Currently under consideration in the European Parliament, the Regulation proposes progressive reductions to the carbon footprint of the battery value chain, mandatory minimum levels of recycled content and recoverability for key raw materials, and additional requirements for battery performance, durability, safety, due diligence, and labeling.

The new EU Batteries Regulation will replace an older Batteries Directive from 2006, which the European Commission deemed too limited in its scope of battery technology and inadequate in its recoverability and recyclability mandates. While the original Directive regulated three battery categories—portable, automotive, and industrial—the updated Regulation adds a separate designation specifically for electric vehicle batteries.

The Regulation has the power to address challenges that have long plagued the battery industry but have never been effectively resolved through comprehensive policy. It tackles some of the thorniest issues with battery manufacturing—such as human rights abuses associated with cobalt mining in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and safety issues with the disposal of lithium-ion batteries at end-of-life—that have, until now, been litigated primarily in the media.

The significant stakeholder engagement around the Batteries Regulation not only highlights its sweeping potential impact but also underscores the differing responses to supply chain disruption between the EU and the United States. For one, the EU’s emphasis on quantifiable sustainability standards far surpasses US efforts to regulate battery sustainability, safety, and end-of-life management. So far, only one jurisdiction in the US—Washington, DC—has passed a law mandating Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) for both single-use and rechargeable batteries. California—arguably the most proactive state with regard to sustainable life cycle management of electric vehicle lithium-ion batteries—has established a Lithium-Ion Car Battery Recycling Advisory Group “aimed at ensuring that as close to 100 percent as possible of lithium-ion batteries are reused or recycled at end-of-life in a safe and cost-effective manner.” But the group is not expected to deliver policy recommendations to the state legislature until April 2022. Meanwhile, the EU-wide EPR directive for batteries came into effect in 2006, and the updated Battery Regulation effectively replaces the flexibility of the original Batteries Directive—which allowed member states to incorporate goals into national laws as they saw fit—with legally binding recyclability, recoverability, and carbon footprint targets.

In addition, national security and geopolitical competition with China tend to play less of a role in supply chain reform in the EU than in the United States. While Europe certainly recognizes the national security imperative of safeguarding supply chains, it prioritizes ESG criteria to protect domestic industry and drive change in key economies active in battery supply chains, the largest of which happens to be China. For example, the European Green Deal’s Circular Economy Action Plan (which includes the new Batteries Regulation) and Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism use sustainability as a lever to both drive innovation at home and force foreign companies active in the trading bloc to choose between cleaner business practices or escalating penalties. In the United States, national security frequently provides the basis for often-sweeping import tariffs, whether explicitly (as in Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962) or implicitly (as in Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974). While the White House’s often-cited 100-Day Supply Chain Review from June 2021 recommends the establishment of a national battery material recovery and recycling policy to improve supply chain resilience, much of the rhetoric—and legal action—around the topic has focused on limiting imports of lithium-ion batteries and related inputs from China.

The global implications of the new Regulation are most evident in its establishment of a battery passport to digitally track key metrics across the battery life cycle, from sourcing, production, and use to potential secondary applications, recycling, and end-of-life. Ultimately, any battery that is “placed on the market” in the EU must abide by the new requirements, meaning that suppliers operating across the battery value chain—from miners in South America’s Lithium Triangle to cell manufacturers in China—will eventually need to transition to more sustainable business models or risk falling out of compliance.

Challenges remain about how penalties for noncompliance will be administered. As lawmakers negotiate requirements for vastly different battery technologies, they must mitigate concerns around regulatory overreach and balance sustainability with economic competitiveness. Industry groups have raised issues with the regulation’s methodology for tracking embedded carbon, rigid targets for recycled content, and extensive disclosure obligations they worry may disadvantage European battery manufacturers. Lawmakers also need to address the lack of clarity around due diligence, EPR transfer for recycled or remanufactured batteries, and monitoring and enforcement of data collection. But overall, battery manufacturers, automakers, and energy companies have responded positively to the legislation. In December 2021, a group of industry players including Northvolt, Vulcan Energy, and others signed a letter urging EU environment ministers to ensure that “the provisions in the proposed regulation are adopted and implemented as swiftly as possible.”

With Europe on track to become the world’s second largest lithium-ion battery cell manufacturer by 2025, the continent has a unique ability to influence ESG standards across supply chains and international borders. As companies in the United States, China, and other major economies seek to carve out or maintain a dominant role in EV supply chains, they will soon have to prove their sustainability bona fides or risk losing market share in the world’s largest trading bloc. The EU’s negotiations for a first-of-its-kind sustainable battery regulation offer a useful roadmap for companies and countries needing to green their own supply chains to stay relevant in the wake of the energy transition.