Saturday, October 29, 2022 – The Russian Minister for Defence announced that it would suspend its participation in the brokered grain export deal of the United Nations with Ukraine after the Crimean city of Sevastopol was attacked by a drone. Though the report from Russia cannot be independently verified, Russia blames Kyiv for the attacks.

On Saturday, Russia was accused by a top Ukrainian official of inventing "fictitious terrorist attacks" on its facilities in Crimea, and Moscow is also accused of blackmail. In a telegram post, the head Ukrainian President's office, Andrii Yerma, blames Russia for "nuclear blackmail, energy blackmail, and food blackmail."

In July, Ministers from Ukraine and Russia signed an agreement brokered by the United Nations and Turkey following months of negotiations. Russia promised to unblock the Black Sea's port to allow the safe passage of grain and oilseeds, some of the most important exports of Ukraine.

Source: CNN
Monday, December 5, 2022 - Two Russian airbases, far from the frontlines, had been rocked by explosions as it appeared that Kyiv had launched a pre-emptive strike on bombers that Kremlin had used to cripple the electrical grid in Ukraine.

The Ministry of Defence in Russia confirmed the attack on Monday, claiming that two of its airplanes were damaged when it intercepted two Ukrainian drones. 

Another explosion took place at the Dyagilevo military airbase near Ryaza, a city that is less than 150 miles from Moscow. A fuel truck exploded, resulting in three deaths, and five others were wounded.

The Kremlin confirmed that it had already briefed President Vladimir Putin of the incidents. The president was reopening the Crimean Bridge on Monday, where an explosion that happened in October raised doubts that Russia could protect the peninsula it occupied from Ukraine in 2014.

Source: The Guardian 
Wednesday, November 16, 2022 – The office for National Statistics said United Kingdom’s inflation rose to a fresh high in October due to Soaring energy costs, which is terrible news for an economy sliding into recession. In October, the annual inflation rate rose to 11.1%, up from 10.1% in the 12 months from September.

The rise in gas and electricity prices has caused a sharp rise in living costs, despite a government energy price guarantee, which caps energy bills at £2,500 ($2,970) for the typical household. In contrast, inflation of food prices rose to 16,4%.

In a statement by ONS chief economist Grant Fitzner, he said, “over the past year, the gas price has climbed nearly 130% while electricity has risen by around 66%.

The Data from ONS last week showed that the economy of the UK shrank in the third quarter, and the bank of England projects that the recession will continue through the first quarter of 2024.

Source: CNN
DETROIT, Nov 14 (Reuters) - General Motors Co (GM.N), opens new tab plans to add more links to its North American battery supply chain, adding to roughly 20 deals, opens new tab so far, in a key strategy to help the Detroit automaker narrow the gap with Tesla Inc (TSLA.O), opens new tab in electric vehicle profitability.
GM Chief Executive Mary Barra and other executives are scheduled to brief investors Thursday on the automaker's progress toward scaling up production capacity to deliver 1 million electric vehicles a year in North America by 2025.

Tesla took an early lead in developing in-house battery production in the United States with its first Gigafactory near Reno, Nevada.
Among established North American automakers, GM has moved the fastest to emulate Tesla's strategy of building a battery manufacturing network from lithium extraction to assembly of battery packs and cells. GM's Ultium LLC joint venture with LG Energy Solutions has announced plans for four North American battery plants.

New federal subsidy policies signed into law in August as part of the Inflation Reduction Act could turn that domestic battery supply chain into a federally funded boost for GM's bottom line.
The IRA's EV tax credits and subsidies are designed to support domestic EV manufacturing. They could move GM closer to making money on affordably priced electric vehicles such as the Chevrolet Equinox SUV, which will have a starting price of about $30,000, roughly half the price of a Tesla Model Y.

The Inflation Reduction Act ties up to $3,750 per vehicle of federal tax credits to requirements that EV batteries be manufactured in North America using materials sourced in North America or from allied nations.
How much GM will reap in federal subsidies will depend on how technical rules are written by federal agencies. Analysts expect Tesla will harvest more overall than any rival through 2030.
"We'll ramp toward full qualification across the broad portfolio in 2 to 3 years as some of the different supply comes online in North America or in the United States," Barra said during a conference call on Oct. 25.
GM has announced 14 deals, opens new tab related to North American battery production since May 2021.
GM officials told Reuters the company has about 20 battery supply chain agreements in place, with more to come.
Federal subsidies will help GM and its rivals narrow the cost disadvantage new North American battery production operations will face in competition with Chinese battery producers, said Prabhakar Patil, a former executive at battery maker LG Chem.
"People who have a head start will have an advantage," Patil said. "The question is how fast you can catch up."