Saturday, July 16, 2022 – The President of the United States, Joe Biden, said that the United States would remain an active and engaged partner in the Middle East. At the Arab summit, he also urged leaders to see human rights as a powerful economic and social change force. 

In Biden’s opening speech to kick off the summit, he said, “The United States is invested in building a positive future for the region in partnership with all of you—and the United States is not going anywhere.”

Biden’s first trip to the Middle East since he became President has seen him focus more on Saturday’s summit with six Gulf states, Egypt, Jordan, and Iraq, while downplaying a meeting with the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, Mohammed bin Salman. 

Biden’s trip to Saudi Arabia aims to strike a deal on oil production to help drive down the prices of gasoline that are driving inflation to a more than 40-year high.

Source: Reuters
Wednesday, August 3, 2022 – The US House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, the most senior US politician to visit Taiwan in 25 years, departed on Wednesday after meeting with leaders in Taipei’s capital. 

The Chinese government accused the United States of violating China’s sovereignty under the disguise of democracy. Wang Yi, Foreign Minister of China, said, “those who play with fire will not come to a good end, and those who offend China will be punished.” 

In a statement following the visit, Nancy Pelosi said that China cannot “prevent world leaders or anyone from traveling to Taiwan to pay respect to its flourishing democracy, highlight its many successes, and reaffirm our commitment to continued collaboration.” 

Pelosi’s visit was not approved by her party colleague, President Joe Biden, who had said the American military felt it was “not a good idea right now” considering the high tension between the two countries.

Source: BBC 
Saturday, July 23, 2022 – The President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, met with a senior United States Congressional delegation in Kyiv and promised continued support in the war against Russia. 

The delegation, which included Adam Smith, chair of the House Armed Services Committee, stated, “The United States, along with allies and partners around the world, has stood with Ukraine by providing economic, military, and humanitarian assistance.” 

To make the total provided so far to 16, the United State Secretary of defense, Lloyd Washington, said on Wednesday that he would send four additional high mobility artillery rocket systems to Ukraine.

On Saturday, the statement made by the delegation made no specific reference to the transfer of weapons. Separately, Smith was quoted as telling the United States-backed Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty that additional launch rocket systems were ready to be provided by Washington and its allies.

Source: Reuters
Panasonic is doubling down on battery production as sales of electric vehicles continue to rise, dominated by its customer Tesla. Electric vehicle sales reached a record high in Q2, rising 13% over the previous quarter according to consulting firm Cox Automotive, with Tesla making up 66% of the segment.

To help meet that demand, Panasonic has been working to grow its production capacity on multiple fronts. The company published plans in April to invest 400 billion yen (approximately $2.9 billion) in “growth areas” including automotive batteries and supply chain software, according to company statements.

In December, Panasonic Energy of North America announced plans to build a production campus in Reno, Nevada, adding to the existing production it has at Tesla’s Gigafactory 1 site in Sparks, Nevada. Panasonic has faced pressure from Tesla, which has asked the company to expedite battery production, Bloomberg reported.

EV battery production is heating up across the country. For example, LG Energy Solutions announced two facility plans this year to up capacity, including the announcement of a third battery cell manufacturing plant with GM in Michigan, as well as a battery factory in Arizona.

At least 13 EV battery manufacturing sites are slated to open in the U.S. in the coming years as of last December, with sites on the way from the likes of Ford, Stellantis and Volkswagen, according to the U.S. Department of Energy. Locations are largely concentrated in the Midwest and the South.

New government funding has also helped with the production push. In May, the Biden administration made $3.1 billion in battery and component manufacturing, recycling and second-life incentives available through the Department of Energy. The Panasonic project, expected to create an estimated 4,000 jobs, received incentives through Kansas’ Attracting Powerful Economic Expansion program.

“Kansas has an impressive history of being home to a skilled manufacturing workforce,” said Kris Takamoto, executive vice president of Panasonic Energy and head of EV Battery Business. “We appreciate Kansas’s dedication to sustainability and its commitment to and growth in the clean and renewable energy space.”