Wednesday, April 4, 2022 - North Korea has not continued its nuclear weapons testing program since 2017, but neighboring South Korea and Japan attest to a recent launch of a ballistic missile from the Sunan airport. This missile has been traced to the ocean of North Korea’s east coast and is said to be part of Kim Jong Un’s renewed schedule to achieve nuclear arsenal dominance as fast as possible. Further, the Japanese Ministry of Defence has confirmed the ballistic missile’s launch.

As the possibility of the North Korean nuclear presence might increase, South Korea’s brand new President Yoon Suk-yeol— having only just taken office for a five-year term— promises the nation that their military alliance with the United States will be a major fallback, should the situation unfold badly.
Source: The Guardian
Thursday, June 9, 2022 - US-based scientist Dr. Mike McPhaden met with colleagues in Australia and gave a public session on the current state of the Pacific and what it means for months ahead in Sydney this week.

Scientists and meteorologists are fixated on a particular part of the tropical Pacific Ocean known as Nino 3.4, where the surface temperatures are used to determine the occurrence of either El Nino or La Nina. 

El Niños are associated with above-average temperatures in the tropical Pacific. They tend to bring hotter and drier weather to Australia's east coast. La Ninas are connected to below-average temperatures in that ocean region. They are associated with greater rainfall and lower temperatures. 

According to McPhaden, triple La Ninas are very rare, with the last one occurring more than 20 years ago. If the coming storm is a triple La Nina, it has the potential to continue into 2023. He also said that global heating plays a role in the current weather events. However, scientists are still trying to understand how the climate could affect the events and activities of the storm.

Source: The Guardian
Friday, June 17, 2022 – Ukraine’s bid to join the European Union received a major boost on Friday. This came after the bloc’s Executives said it believed the country should be formally considered for candidate status due to Russia’s invasion.

The European Commission’s President, Ursula von der Leyen, who spoke in Brussels, said the commission recommends “that Ukraine is given candidate status." This is, of course, on the understanding that the country will carry out a number of further reforms.

Another country that the commission recommended for candidate status is Ukraine’s neighbor, Moldova. The leaders of the 27 EU member states are set to meet for a summit next week to discuss their options. 

Volodymyr Zelensky said at a joint press conference in Kyiv on Thursday that Russia’s attack on his country amounted to an attack on all of Europe. Among those who were present at the conference were the German Chancellor, French President, and Italian Prime Minister.

Source: CNN 
Tesla isn’t alone in terms of facing supply chain squeezes. Solar and storage developers across the country are witnessing delayed and canceled projects as a result of labor and equipment shortages, transportation backlogs as well as the soaring price of lithium, a key raw material in the main batteries currently used for electric vehicles and energy storage. Storage developers have had a tough time procuring lithium-ion batteries as a result. Solar deployments in the U.S., meanwhile, didn’t meet expectations for 2021 because gigawatts’ worth of projects were delayed in part due to supply chain challenges. 

Tesla is placing an emphasis on diversifying battery chemistries, and nearly half of the vehicles it produced in the first quarter had lithium iron phosphate batteries, which contain no nickel or cobalt.

The company’s energy storage deployments touched 846 MWh in the first quarter, a 90% year over year increase, but the ongoing supply chain challenges have limited its growth and demand for its storage products remains higher than its production capacity, Tesla reported. Tesla is ramping up production at a Megapack factory, which produces battery units, to meet this demand. Solar deployments, meanwhile, decreased by 48% year over year, to 48 MW in Q1, driven largely by import delays. 

Right now, the mining and refining of lithium appears to be the key limiting factor to “accelerating the advent of a sustainable energy future,” Musk told analysts on Wednesday’s call. 

“It certainly is responsible for quite a bit of cost growth in the sales. It’s, I think, the single biggest cost growth item right now certainly on a percentage basis,” he added.

There isn’t a shortage of lithium ore, Musk pointed out — lithium itself is a common element, but it needs to go through “a whole series of refinement steps” that requires a lot of industrial equipment before it can be used in a battery cell. He encouraged entrepreneurs to enter the lithium space, saying, “do you like minting money? Well, the lithium business is for you.”

Lithium prices remain high because EV demand has continued to grow and supply hasn’t been able to keep up, Morten Lund, partner with Stoel Rives, said. However, he views this as a temporary issue, somewhat comparable to the silicon shortages that the solar industry experienced in the past.

“It was just a matter of suddenly, solar became very attractive and there weren’t enough silicone facilities. So we built some more and three years later, silicone prices plummeted,” he said. 

Similarly, there’s a general understanding now that EVs are here to stay, which gives people who might be looking to invest in lithium facilities an excuse to do so, he added.

“I fully anticipate this will result in a bit of a gold rush on lithium for the next couple of years… and that will drastically drop lithium prices, which in turn will spur further development of batteries and EVs,” he said.