Thursday, December 8, 2022 – WNBA player Brittney Griner was released as part of a prisoner swap involving Russian arms dealer Viktor Bout.

Griner’s February detention in Russia caused diplomatic turmoil between the US and the Kremlin that played out alongside Russia’s war in Ukraine. Along with severe sanctions in reaction to the Ukraine war, US officials also maintained contact with Moscow over prisoner discussions.

She had been held since February when she was caught on drug smuggling accusations at an airport in the Moscow region. She had played in the off-season for a Russian women's basketball club. She was sentenced to nine years in prison in early August and was transferred to a Mordovia republic penal colony in mid-November after losing her appeal.

Bout, dubbed the "Merchant of Death," is a former Soviet military commander receiving a 25-year jail sentence in the United States for planning to kill Americans, acquiring and exporting anti-aircraft missiles, and providing material support to a terrorist group. A sentence that Moscow called "baseless and biased."

Source: CNN
Saturday, November 5, 2022 – A law has been signed by the President of Russia, Vladimir Putin, to conscript citizens with unexpunged or outstanding convictions for murder, robbery, larceny, drug trafficking, and other serious crimes under the Criminal Code of Conduct of the Russian Federation to be called up for military service to mobilize.

This law makes it possible to have hundreds of thousands of people mobilized. These people have been sentenced to probation or have recently been released from colonies that were previously forbidden to serve.

President Putin confirmed that an additional 18,000 soldiers have already been mobilized by Kremlin, above its goal of 300,000 to fight in the war in Ukraine from the general male population substances.

Though the Russian military earlier this week announced that all partial mobilization activities had been suspended, Putin’s partial mobilization order will only end when the President signs an official decree.

Source: CNN
Thursday, November 24, 2022 – According to the estimates, well over 20,000 people died throughout Western Europe during this summer's heatwaves. The analysis revealed a disparity between the number of fatalities that occurred and those predicted based on previous trends.

During the summer heatwaves, temperatures in London hit 40°C, parts in south-west France reached 42°C, while Seville and Córdoba in Spain established records of 44°C. According to the EU's Copernicus climate change program, the summer of 2022 was the warmest on record.

Although the research did not precisely quantify heat-related mortality, the number of deaths was greater on average for heat-period days than for non-heat-period days.

"Heatwaves are growing more common and powerful as the world warms up, so we may expect more and hotter heatwaves in the future," said Dr. Eunice Lo, a research fellow in climate change and health at the University of Bristol.

Source: The Guardian 
General Motors is acting to ensure it has the material needed to support the company’s ambitious plans for battery-electric vehicles.

Underscoring the automaker’s continuing effort to build a North American supply chain supporting battery production, GM says it has reached agreement with Canada Limited, a subsidiary of mining company Vale S.A., for the long-term supply of battery-grade nickel sulfate from Vale’s proposed plant at Bécancour, Québec, Canada.

The agreement secures a significant supply of high-grade nickel sulfate (pictured, below) from a U.S. free-trade partner to support its fast-growing BEV production needs in North America, the automaker says.

“GM’s dedicated cross-functional organization – including experts from global purchasing and supply chain, corporate development, legal, finance and treasury – is strictly focused on building a secure, sustainable, scalable and cost-competitive EV supply chain,” says Doug Parks, GM executive vice president of Global Product Development, Purchasing and Supply Chain.

He says the cross-functional structure already has allowed GM to sign multiple binding agreements to secure the battery raw material to support 1 million units of annual BEV capacity in North America in 2025.

“In addition, Canada continues to play an important role in GM’s all-electric future and the material sourced from Vale will help support EV eligibility for consumer incentives under the new clean-energy tax credits in the U.S.,” says Parks.
Under terms of the agreement, Vale will supply battery-grade nickel sulfate, equivalent to 25,000 metric tons per year of contained nickel, for use in GM’s Ultium battery cathodes, which will power a range of battery-electric vehicles including the Chevrolet Silverado, Blazer and Equinox , the Cadillac Lyriq, the GMC Sierra  and the GMC Hummer pickup and SUV (pictured, below).

Nickel sulfate is the chemical compound used in the production of pre-cathode active materials for nickel-based lithium-ion batteries. GM says the amount of contained nickel is sufficient to supply about 350,000 BEVs annually. The first deliveries are expected in second-half 2026.

Vale and GM also have agreed to study ways to partner on advanced-technology development and commercialization pathways to harvest recycled metals. 

GM and battery manufacturer Microvast will work together to develop specialized battery separator technology and build a new separator plant in the U.S., which is expected to create hundreds of new jobs.

The work will be supported by a $200 million grant from the U.S. Department of Energy’s Battery Materials Processing and Battery Manufacturing initiative, the automaker says.

Separators are safety-critical battery components that serve to separate the anode from the cathode, allowing for ion transfer. GM will contribute its separator and coating technology to the collaboration with Microvast.

GM and Microvast will jointly develop new separator technology that can help improve vehicle safety, charging and battery life. The technology is designed to enhance thermal stability of batteries and work with nearly all types of lithium-ion cells, including graphite, silicon and lithium-metal anodes and nickel-rich, cobalt-free, lithium iron phosphate-type and high-voltage cathodes.

“This collaboration with Microvast supports our ongoing efforts to develop a North American-focused EV supply chain and help put everyone in an EV,” says Kent Helfrich, GM chief technology officer and vice president of R&D. 

“It will also provide us with pioneering separator technology that can be used in future Ultium batteries, and most importantly, supports our continuing commitment to safety.”

In addition, the Energy Dept. has further recognized GM's battery expertise by selecting the company for its Battery500 Consortium, which is being awarded $75 million for a second phase of research.

Led by the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, the consortium comprises battery experts from national laboratories, academia and industry working to develop more reliable, affordable, longer-range and higher-performance batteries. GM is the only auto manufacturer selected for the consortium and will work with other members to accelerate development of high-energy, rechargeable lithium metal batteries.