Thursday, February 17, 2022 – A wave of a landslide caused by heavy rains caused massive casualties in the Brazilian city of Petrópolis, with the fatality count standing at 110 people. 

According to the Civil Defense of Rio, another 134 persons remain missing, and the continuous torrential rains that prompted the evacuation of another area in the city on Thursday may cause more casualties as the rainfall on Tuesday afternoon alone was greater than the historical average for the whole month of February.

Search and rescue crews were forced their way through sludge, searching for survivors amid the wreckage. The National Civil Defense stated it had saved 24 people but over 439 individuals had lost their houses.

Brazil's President Jair Bolsonaro, who was in Moscow when the landslides began on Tuesday before traveling to Hungary, is scheduled to visit Petrópolis on Friday. He had directed ministers and requested "urgent help" for the victims.

Source: CNN
Liz Truss has announced 65 sanctions, targeting strategic industries, banks and business elites

the sanctions target those aiding Russia’s invasion of Ukraine including the Wagner Group, multiple defence companies and Russian Railways

the UK has now sanctioned over 1,000 individuals and businesses under the Russia sanctions regime since the invasion

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has announced 65 new Russian sanctions today (Thursday 24 March) against a range of key strategic industries and individuals. The UK has now sanctioned over 1,000 individuals and businesses under the Russia sanctions regime since the invasion.

Today’s sanctions target key industries supporting Russia’s illegal invasion, including Russian Railways and defence company Kronshtadt, the main producer of Russian drones. The Wagner Group – the organisation Russian mercenaries reportedly tasked with assassinating President Zelenskyy - has also been sanctioned.

Six more banks are targeted, including Alfa Bank whose cofounders include previously sanctioned oligarchs Mikhail Fridman, Petr Aven and German Khan. The world’s largest diamond producer Alrosa is also sanctioned.

Individuals sanctioned include the billionaire oil tycoon Eugene Shvidler, founder of Tinkoff bank Oleg Tinkov, Herman Gref, the CEO of Russia’s largest bank Sberbank, and Polina Kovaleva, Foreign Minister Lavrov’s step daughter. Galina Danilchenko, who was installed by Russia as the ‘mayor’ of Melitopol is also sanctioned - the first time an individual has been sanctioned for collaboration with Russian forces currently in Ukraine.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said:

Putin should be under no illusions – we are united with our allies and will keep tightening the screw on the Russian economy to help ensure he fails in Ukraine. There will be no let-up.

All those sanctioned today will have their assets in the UK frozen which means no UK citizen or company can do business with them, and individuals subject to travel bans are also prohibited from travelling to or from the UK.

Today’s sanctions will bring the total global asset value of the banks the UK has sanctioned since the invasion to £500 billion and the net worth of the oligarchs and family members in excess of £150 billion.

The provisions brought in by the Economic Crime Act have streamlined the previous legislation so the UK can respond even more swiftly and effectively to the current crisis. The government will continue to tighten the screw and use sanctions to degrade the Russian economy on a scale that the Kremlin, or any major economy, has never seen before.

The UK has led the international sanctions effort, cutting off whole sectors of the Russian economy by targeting its defence companies, its trade and transport sector, and working with allies to exclude Russia from the SWIFT financial system.

Key individuals and businesses sanctioned today
ALFA-BANK JSC (Alfa-Bank), the largest of the private banks in Russia and is based in Moscow. Alfa-Bank ranks among the top 10 largest banks in terms of capital in Russia and Ukraine. It is a distinct entity to distinct from Alfa-Bank (Ukraine) which has not been sanctioned.

Alrosa, the world’s largest diamond mining company specializing in exploration, mining, manufacture, and sale of diamonds. It is headquartered in Mirny, Russia and its market capitalization is reported as an estimated £4.69 billion.

Eugene Markovich Shvidler, is a billionaire businessman with close business links to Roman Abramovich (designated by the UK on 10 March 2022). His net worth is reported as an estimated £1.2 billion.

Oleg Tinkov, founder of Tinkoff Bank. His net worth is reported as an estimated £3.4 billion.

Herman Gref, Chief Executive Officer of Sberbank, the largest Russian bank. Gref is a close advisor of President Putin since they started working together in the St Petersburg Government in the 1990s. He served as Putin’s Minister of Economic Development and Trade between 2000 and 2007, before taking over at Sberbank.

Oleg E Aksyutin, the Deputy Chairman of the Management Board at Gazprom PJSC, the Russian multinational energy corporation.

Didier Casimiro, the First Vice President of Rosneft, the Russian State oil company.

Zeljko Runje, the Deputy Chairman of the Management Board and First Vice President for Oil, Gas, and Offshore Business Development of Rosneft.

Galina Danilchenko, installed as ‘mayor’ of Melitopol by Russian authorities after their military occupied the city and kidnapped the legitimate mayor. This is the first designation by any partner country for collaboration with the Russian military in Ukraine since the invasion.

Polina Kovaleva, stepdaughter of Russian Foreign Minister, Sergey Lavrov. She reportedly owns a c.£4 million property in London. This sends a strong signal that those benefiting from association of those responsible for Russian aggression are in scope of our sanctions.

Background
Asset freeze
An asset freeze prevents any UK citizen, or any business in the UK, from dealing with any funds or economic resources which are owned, held or controlled by the designated person and which are held in the UK. It will also prevent funds or economic resources being provided to or for the benefit of the designated person.

Travel ban
A travel ban means that the designated person must be refused leave to enter or to remain in the United Kingdom, providing the individual to be an excluded person under section 8B of the Immigration Act 1971.

Transport sanctions
Recently introduced powers make it a criminal offence for any Russian aircraft to fly or land in the UK, and give the government powers to remove aircraft belonging to designated Russian individuals and entities from the UK aircraft register, even if the sanctioned individual is not on board. Russian ships are also banned from UK ports.
Medan, Indonesia – The new year has got off to a wet start on the island of Sumatra in Indonesia after torrential rains displaced some more than 30,000 people and left two children dead, according to the country’s Disaster Mitigation Agency.

Heavy rain has pummelled parts of the western island including Jambi and Aceh provinces for days raising fears that the flooding will harm the local economy and lead to a spike in COVID-19 cases.

Muhammad Hatta says his village on the outskirts of the town of Lhoksukon in Aceh Province has been underwater since the beginning of the year, and there is little sign of respite.

Hatta, his wife and three sons managed to prevent the floodwaters from entering their home by blocking off their downstairs kitchen.

But while they have decided to stay put, they fear that the worst may be to come.

“We are more worried about what happens after the floodwaters subside,” Hatta told Al Jazeera.

“All the rice paddies in the area are underwater. The farmers were just about to harvest them, but crops usually die after three or four days of being completely submerged. The farmers will have lost everything.”

Aerial footage filmed by Hatta and seen by Al Jazeera showed impassable streets in and around his village, and homes submerged in milky brown water.


In addition to the ruined rice crop, Hatta says that day labourers in the area have also been unable to work due to the floods.

“The local economy has been destroyed,” he said.

The milky brown waters rose to the roof of buildings around the Aceh town of Lhoksukon 
Floodwaters have risen in Lhoksukon and surrounding villages in Aceh province, Indonesia,  since the start of the year [Supplied/Hamdani]
Parts of neighbouring Malaysia have also been inundated after heavy rains lashed the country, forcing thousands into temporary shelters. More than 50 people have died as a result of the floods across the country, which have affected the states of Selangor, Johor and Melaka, across the Strait of Malacca from Sumatra, particularly badly.

Hatta says the flooding occurs in the area every year and that the government needed to prevent it from happening again by clearing sediment from the surrounding rivers – making them deeper so that they no longer burst their banks following heavy rain.

Hamdani, the head of public relations of the North Aceh Regional Secretariat, told Al Jazeera that there were 32,854 people displaced across 16 districts in North Aceh after heavy rains carried surges of water downstream.

“Local residents have been sheltering with relatives, in mosques and prayer halls and in specially constructed emergency shelters,” he said.

On Sunday, North Aceh Regent Muhammad Thaib declared an official state of emergency in the regency as a result of the floods.

“We are working on logistics like making sure those displaced have enough food. For a few days it’s OK for people to eat instant noodles but after that we need to keep them healthy and feed them nutritious foods like tempeh, mung beans, grains and corn,” Hamdani said.

“We also need blankets for the children and babies as well as milk.”

Hamdani acknowledged that the floods were almost an annual event and said that the regional government was hoping the construction of the Keureuto Dam, slated for completion in 2023, would ease the problem. The dam will hold water from the Krueng Keureuto river and six of its tributaries.

In the meantime, the flooding comes at a particularly inopportune moment.

“COVID-19 numbers in North Aceh have been going down and I have had fewer patients coming to see me with serious symptoms in recent weeks,” Lhoksukon-based pulmonary specialist, Dr Indra Buana, told Al Jazeera.

Children stand in floodwaters in front of a wooden building with a rusted corrugated roof in Aceh
Children in the floodwaters in the villages around Lhoksukon. There are concerns about the spread of disease, including COVID-19 [Supplied/Rina Sarina]
Aceh has reported approximately 38,000 COVID-19 cases since the pandemic began and slightly more than 2,000 deaths, although it has barely registered any new cases or deaths in recent weeks.

But now, the doctor fears that the floods will cause a spate of medical conditions at the same time as the Omicron variant looms on the horizon.

“Floodwater is very dangerous,” he said. “If people inhale it they can drown or it can cause serious lung inflammation.”

“The wet and cold weather at this time of year also usually causes a rise in cases like asthma and upper respiratory tract infections.”

An added problem also comes from displaced residents fleeing their homes and sharing limited space in shelters or with family members where social distancing is difficult.

Aceh has one of the least vaccinated populations in Indonesia with just more than 1.2 million residents double vaccinated out of a population of more than 5.3 million, according to figures from the Ministry of Health.

“We are worried that there will be a spike in COVID-19 cases. It could be very dangerous if someone from outside the area who has COVID-19 visits the shelters and unwittingly infects everyone,” Dr Buana said.

“But at the same time we can’t prohibit people from bringing aid. “
The Biden administration on Monday announced the availability of more than $3.1 billion in funding for battery and component manufacturing, recycling and second-life incentives through the U.S. Department of Energy.

The investments will support development of new, retrofitted, and expanded battery production facilities, along with battery recycling and other “manufacturing demonstrations,” DOE said. The Battery Materials Processing and Battery Manufacturing funding opportunity has an application deadline of July 1, while Electric Drive Vehicle Battery Recycling and Second Life applications are due July 19.

The investment in battery production and recycling will give a boost to the domestic supply chain and make the U.S. less dependent on foreign nations, said Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm.

The Department of Energy (DOE) announced plans to provide nearly $3 billion to a pair of programs designed to spur domestic production of advanced batteries for electric vehicles and energy storage. 
One program will spend about $2.8 billion to support new, retrofitted and expanded domestic operations for the production of battery materials and cell components and battery recycling. Another $60 million will go to research and development of second-life sources for EV batteries, according to the two notices of intent. 
The funds are part of the more than $7 billion Congress dedicated to improving the domestic battery supply chain in the bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act.

While the Biden administration has invested heavily in promoting EVs and the transition to renewable energy production, there are concerns that the U.S. has not done enough to build a battery supply chain to support that transition. A June DOE report identified “a real threat that U.S. companies will not be able to benefit from domestic and global market growth” for batteries, adding that “the U.S. risks long-term dependence on foreign sources of batteries and critical materials.”

BloombergNEF’s 2021 global lithium-ion battery supply chain ranking found that China held 80% of the world’s battery cell manufacturing capacity, with the potential to more than double it by 2026. The U.S. was in second place. 

That DOE report laid out a blueprint to establish a “secure battery materials and technology supply chain” in the U.S. by 2030, which would lower the cost of EV battery pack manufacturing by 50% in that time. That blueprint included commitments to securing better access to raw and refined materials, supporting a materials-processing base, fostering manufacturing and increasing end-of-life reuse and recycling. 

“As electric cars and trucks continue to grow in popularity within the United States and around the world, we must seize the chance to make advanced batteries — the heart of this growing industry — right here at home,” said U.S. Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm in a statement Friday. “With funding from Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we’re making it possible to establish a thriving battery supply chain in the United States.” 

A bulk of the grant funding detailed Friday – which will be formally announced in the coming months – will focus on supporting new battery manufacturing and material processing facilities in the U.S., with an eye on both energy storage and EV uses. Although a handful of companies – including Tesla and KORE Power – have built gigafactories in the U.S. to reduce supply chain disruptions and ensure that domestic companies have ample access to advanced batteries, experts say more needs to be done to avoid losing ground to Asian battery giants. 

“He who innovates and controls the battery technology will take the lion’s share of the economic value of an automobile,” Krish Vengat, vice president of supply chain consulting for supply chain and procurement firm GEP, said in an email. “Battery production is also a very complex global supply chain, and relies on sourcing conflict minerals. So, the sooner we expand our domestic capabilities the better we will be from a value – the cost of batteries – and economic risk perspective.”

The funding will also include support of projects to either recycle EV batteries into the battery supply chain – broadening access to raw materials – or use them in other applications. Several projects have sought to apply used EV batteries for energy storage and a 2019 report from McKinsey found that by 2030, there could be more than 200 GWh a year in second-life batteries available. 

Additional funding in the infrastructure bill will go to a new battery material processing grant program, which will also support new manufacturing facilities for battery processing, as well as $140 million for a rare earth demonstration facility and refinery that will help supply materials for lithium-ion batteries. 