Friday, December 9, 2022 – The government of the United Kingdom approved its first coal mining operation in the last 30 years, a project which critics have dubbed “disastrous” to the UK climate change targets. Initially approved by the in October 2020 and backed by 40 conservative MPs, the coal mining operation is targeted at manufacturing steel, not electricity generation.

The UK especially needed the coal mine as they could not depend on Russia to import coal since the onset of the Russia-Ukraine conflict. This made experts warn that the development would prevent the UK from meeting its goal of reducing the emission of greenhouse gases by 2035 by 78%. 

According to the UK Climate Change Committee (UKCCC), If the UK does not drop the use of coal by 2035, it will result in the need for expensive capture and disposal methods of the emitted gases.

Sources: BBC
Thursday, December 8, 2022 – According to one study, the fetuses of women working in fields in the Gambia showed concerning increases in heart rates and decreases in blood flow to the placenta as temperatures rose.

Hundreds of millions of people, including mothers, are expected to be exposed to extreme heat worldwide, even if global temperatures remain below the internationally agreed-upon limit of 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels.

The study may help to understand why expecting moms suffer from heat stress. Two possible explanations are sweat, which causes dehydration, and diverting blood and oxygen from the placenta to the mother's skin to cool the body.

The researchers also discovered that increasing a measure of heat stress by 1 degree Celsius increased the risk of fetal distress by 17%. Even after accounting for the rise in the woman's temperature and heart rate, it increased by 12%, indicating that other factors were affecting the fetus.

Source: The Guardian 
Friday, December 23, 2022 – Three people have been killed, and others wounded as a gunman opened fire in central Paris. A Kurdish Cultural Centre seems to have been the primary target of the attacker, where he shot members of the local community. 

In a short statement by the Kurdish Democratic Council (CDF-K), which was in charge of the center, they condemned the attack and said tribute would be paid to those killed during a vigil on Friday evening.

Anne Hidalgo, Paris Mayor, said she believed that a far-right activist committed the Murder. She added that “Kurds wherever they reside, must be able to live in peace and security. More than ever, Paris is by their side in these dark times.”

Prosecutors have launched a murder investigation.

Source: BBC 
The White House on Wednesday detailed $2.8 billion in grants to build a domestic EV battery supply chain, but more of the funds in this allocation go toward projects in states opposed to climate action, and states for which legislators voted against the law.

Part of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law passed in 2021, the funding goes to 20 battery manufacturing and raw-materials processing companies for projects across 12 states, according to a White House press release. When matched by recipients, the funding totals more than $9 billion, the White House noted.

But as The New York Times pointed out, the flow of money, which is being announced just weeks before consequential midterm elections, is weighted toward red states. The list of states where projects receiving the federal funding are located includes: Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Missouri, Nevada, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Tennessee, and Washington.

Goals for the funding include developing enough lithium supply for approximately two million EVs annually, graphite supply for 1.2 million EVs annually, and nickel supply for 400,000 EVs annually.

Grants will also fund expanded refinement and manufacturing infrastructure, including the first commercial-scale lithium electrolyte salt production facility in the United States, the first commercial-scale domestic silicon oxide production facilities (for battery anodes), and the first U.S. lithium iron phosphate (LFP) cathode facility. Another project is an electrode binder facility that aims to satisfy 45% of demand for battery binders by 2030.

In addition to funding battery supply infrastructure, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law also funnels $7.5 billion toward creation of a national EV charging network that now includes plans for all 50 states.

Outside the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Energy Department earlier this year designated more than $3 billion toward the domestic supply chain, and the Biden Administration has already turned to the Defense Production Act to bolster battery materials.

This should result in more affordable EVs in the long term. In more immediate consumer sense and over the short term, the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) and its revamped EV tax credit will mean less affordable EVs.