Wednesday, June 22, 2022 – In what appears to be an attack inside Russia’s borders, dramatic footage of a drone crashing into an oil refinery and causing a fiery explosion has emerged from Russia. 

According to social media footage, the drone crashed into the Novoshakhtinsk oil refinery in Rostov in what would be a suspected breach of Russia’s air defense. Despite using drones during the war, Ukraine has not claimed responsibility for the alleged attack.

If the refinery attack is confirmed, it will imply that the drone was launched from within Russia or passed over Russian-controlled territory on its way to the refinery, passing through Russian air defense systems along the way.

Although no one was hurt in the incident, the refinery has seized operation as they wait for repairs.

Source: The Guardian
Wednesday, May 18, 2022 - A flood from the torrential rainfall caused miners to be trapped in a Canadian-owned mine. Since the accident, A 24-hour-a-day rescue effort employing specialized equipment brought in from Ghana and South Africa has been underway.

It has taken about 4 weeks to reach the first rescue chambers that could be a point of refuge for the trapped miners. However, no miner was found in the chamber, located at about 560 meters from the surface.

Millions of liters of water have been pumped out of the mine. The rescue engineers have found it difficult to work in humid conditions to save their colleagues. All efforts are directed towards reaching the second refuge chamber, located at about 710 meters from the surface.

The miners’ wives have gathered close to the area in prayer congregations, with tears and hopes that their husbands will be found alive.

Source: BBC
Thursday, May 5, 2022 - Twenty-two people have been reported dead and 40 people injured in a devastating flood in Kabul recently. The country is currently experiencing a humanitarian crisis and struggling to cope with the incidence.

The flood hit 12 provinces, a third of the provinces in the country but was more severe in the western provinces of Badghis and Fyrab and the Northern Province of Baghlan.

Apart from the death toll, 500 houses were destroyed, 2000 damaged, and 3000 acres of crops were lost to the flood. 

A Taliban Official mentioned that the Red Cross was helping out, and officials would approach other charitable international organizations for help to alleviate the situation. However, concerns about the illegitimacy of the Taliban have made the international community wonder how to help the country’s citizens without benefiting the Taliban.

Source: Reuters 
Chinese companies that produce raw materials for electric vehicle batteries show indications of using forced labor, according to a report from The New York Times.

The newspaper reported that mining conglomerate Xinjiang Nonferrous Metal Industry employs hundreds of Uyghurs, an ethnic minority in China, as part of a so-called work transfer program.

The Times reported China has acknowledged running such a program that moves Uyghurs and other ethnic minorities from the south of Xinjiang to the north to work in industrial jobs.

In response to a CNBC request for comment, Liu Pengyu, a spokesperson for the Chinese embassy in the U.S., said allegations of forced labor are “a big lie.”

“It is a lie against logic, against facts and against legal principles,” he said in an email, adding that people are not forced to be a “transferred laborers” in Xinjiang.

The U.S. State Department previously noted, citing an independent researcher, that transferred workers are at risk of being subjected to forced labor. It has also previously cited Chinese academic publications that “described labor transfers as a crucial means to fragment Uyghur society and mitigate the ‘negative’ impact of religion.”

In social media posts translated by the Times, Xinjiang Nonferrous said workers from mostly Muslim minorities were lectured on “eradicating religious extremism” and becoming workers who “embraced their Chinese nationhood.”

Chinese authorities have repeatedly denied that the country imprisons or enslaves Uyghurs. On Tuesday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said the claims of forced labor in Xinjiang are a “huge lie made up by anti-China forces to denigrate China.” He said the rights of workers of all ethnic groups in Xinjiang are duly protected.

Xinjiang Nonferrous Metal Industry produces minerals and metals, including lithium, nickel and copper. It has exported metals to the United States, Germany, U.K., Japan and India, the Times reported. It’s unclear whether these relationships are ongoing, however, the New York Times reported.

The report was published on the eve of the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act taking effect in the United States. The legislation bans goods made with forced labor in Xinjiang from entering the U.S. market.

The Times reported that thousands of companies could have some link to Xinjiang in their supply chains. If fully enforced, many products, including some needed for electric vehicles, may be stopped at the border.