Monday, February 28, 2022 – Cyclone Batsirai blasted into the Indian Ocean island late Saturday, hammering the eastern shoreline until it moved away late Sunday, killing at least ten people, displacing 43,000 people, and destroying some towns and villages. Madagascar, which has a population of roughly 30 million people, was already suffering from the repercussions of Cyclone Ana, which had killed 55 people and displaced 130,000 just two weeks before.

Officials stated that emergency responders were struggling to access sections of Madagascar damaged by a cyclone over the weekend because many roads and bridges were unusable, and rising river levels threatened to displace even more people. 

The official disaster relief agency in Madagascar said it was supplying basic necessities to 43,000 people in 180 temporary shelters. At the same time, the World Food Programme claimed it had begun giving hot meals to 4,000 evacuated individuals.

Source: CNN
Thursday, February 17, 2022 – A wave of a landslide caused by heavy rains caused massive casualties in the Brazilian city of Petrópolis, with the fatality count standing at 110 people. 

According to the Civil Defense of Rio, another 134 persons remain missing, and the continuous torrential rains that prompted the evacuation of another area in the city on Thursday may cause more casualties as the rainfall on Tuesday afternoon alone was greater than the historical average for the whole month of February.

Search and rescue crews were forced their way through sludge, searching for survivors amid the wreckage. The National Civil Defense stated it had saved 24 people but over 439 individuals had lost their houses.

Brazil's President Jair Bolsonaro, who was in Moscow when the landslides began on Tuesday before traveling to Hungary, is scheduled to visit Petrópolis on Friday. He had directed ministers and requested "urgent help" for the victims.

Source: CNN
Moscow and Kyiv
CNN
 — 
Russian forces have begun an attack on Ukraine, with reports of troops crossing the border to the north and south, explosions in multiple cities including the capital Kyiv and warnings from Russian President Vladimir Putin of bloodshed unless Ukrainian forces lay down their arms.

The offensive that Russia called a “special military operation” came as world leaders attempted to avert catastrophe with a meeting of the United Nations Security Council amid warnings that a possible invasion could start the biggest war in Europe since 1945.

The first blasts were heard at around 5 a.m. Thursday, prompting immediate condemnation from the United States and its allies, which have threatened to enact “full scale” sanctions in response to Russian military aggression.


As air raid sirens rang out across Kyiv early Thursday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky moved to enact martial law and government ministers accused Moscow of launching a “full scale invasion.” As dawn broke, heavy traffic could be seen clogging roads heading west out of the city, while further east, near the Russian border, the mayor of Kharkiv urged citizens not to leave their homes.

Inhabitants of Kyiv leave the city following pre-offensive missile strikes of the Russian armed forces and Belarus on February 24.
Inhabitants of Kyiv leave the city following pre-offensive missile strikes of the Russian armed forces and Belarus on February 24. Pierre Crom/Getty Images
Ukraine’s Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba tweeted on his official page that “peaceful Ukrainian cities are under strike” and called the situation “a war of aggression.” And an adviser to the Ukrainian Interior Minister, Anton Gerashchenko, told journalists Russia’s “invasion has begun” with “missile strikes on Kyiv.”

CNN witnessed, through a livestream video, troops atop a column of military vehicles entering Ukraine from a border crossing with Belarus. The livestream video was taken at the Senkivka, Ukraine crossing with Veselovka, Belarus. The column was seen entering Ukraine at about 6:48 a.m. local time.

Military vehicles are seen on a livestream video entering Ukraine from Belarus.
Military vehicles are seen on a livestream video entering Ukraine from Belarus. From Ukrainian Border Guard
In recent weeks, Russia has amassed a significant number of troops, vehicles and tanks in Belarus near the border with Ukraine. During that time, the two countries have held joint military exercises across the countries, and near the Belarus-Ukrainian border.

CNN teams in Russia and Ukraine also heard blasts from several parts of Ukraine, including near the capital Kyiv and the port city of Odessa, and images released by the office of President Zelensky showed large explosions to the east of the capital Kyiv with huge columns of smoke rising into the air.

The General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces said five Russian aircraft and a helicopter were shot down early Thursday, claims Russia denied via state news agency TASS.

An explosion is seen in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv early Thursday, February 24.
An explosion is seen in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv early Thursday, February 24. Ukrainian President's Office
Hours before, Putin announced a military operation in the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine, which contains the separatist-held regions of Donetsk and Luhansk which Moscow recognized as independent on Monday – in violation of international law.

In the address, broadcast live on Russian national television, Putin urged Ukrainian forces to lay down their arms and go home, saying all responsibility for possible bloodshed would be entirely on the conscience of the Ukrainian government.

“Our plans are not to occupy Ukraine, we do not plan to impose ourselves on anyone,” he said, but threatened “those who may be tempted to intervene” on Ukraine’s behalf.


“Whoever tries to interfere with us, and even more so to create threats to our country, to our people, should know that Russia’s response will be immediate and will lead you to such consequences as you have never experienced in your history,” he said.

Before the announcement of military action, Zelensky appealed for peace but vowed the country would defend itself.

“If we are attacked militarily, if they try to take away our freedom, our lives, our children’s lives, we will defend ourselves,” the Ukrainian President said, in a speech in Russian and directed at Russian citizens.”When you attack, you will see our faces and not our spines, our faces.”

In a second video message posted to his official Facebook page Thursday, Zelensky said Russia “began an attack on Ukraine today” and that Ukrainian forces had “already taken on the first blow of the enemy and are resisting.”

“Putin began war against Ukraine, against the entire democratic world. He wants to destroy my country, our country, everything we’ve been building, everything we are living for,” he said.

US President Joe Biden issued a statement saying Russia had launched “an unprovoked and unjustified attack” on the Ukrainian people.

“President Putin has chosen a premeditated war that will bring a catastrophic loss of life and human suffering,” he said. “Russia alone is responsible for the death and destruction this attack will bring, and the United States and its Allies and partners will respond in a united and decisive way. The world will hold Russia accountable.”

“These are among the darkest hours for Europe since the end of World War II. A major nuclear power has attacked a neighbor country and is threatening reprisals of any other states that may come to rescue,” said EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell in Brussels.

EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen promised to “weaken Russia’s economic base and its capacity to modernize” following its “barbaric attack” against Ukraine.

“We will freeze Russian assets in the European Union and stop the access of Russian banks to European financial markets,” she said.

Russian stocks plunged Thursday after trading resumed on the Moscow Stock Exchange. The Russian ruble also crashed to an all-time low against the dollar and the euro.

What’s happening on the ground
Ukraine’s borders were reportedly under attack from Russian forces to the north in Belarus and the south from Crimea, according to the Ukrainian State Border Service.

Russian troops had attacked border units, patrol border and checkpoints with “artillery, heavy equipment and small arms,” the border service said.

The Russian military claimed Ukraine’s border service “did not provide any resistance” and claimed to have “suppressed” Ukraine’s air defenses. CNN was not able to immediately verify either of those claims.

CNN teams on the ground heard explosions in and near multiple Ukrainian cities, including Kyiv, the second largest city Kharkiv, Odessa, and distant firing from Zaporizhzhiya.

Ukraine Interior Minister adviser Gerashchenko tweeted that troops had landed in the southern city of Odessa and were crossing the border in Kharkiv, located in the country’s northeast. In a post on his Facebook page, he also said control centers such as airfields and military headquarters were being hit by shelling in Kyiv and Kharkiv, and that there was artillery fire along the border.

The Russian military released a statement Thursday claiming it was not targeting Ukrainian cities, saying “the civilian population is not at risk.” 

Local residents are seen refueling at a gas station in Mariupol, eastern Ukraine.
Local residents are seen refueling at a gas station in Mariupol, eastern Ukraine. Carlos Barria/Reuters
“The Russian Armed Forces are not launching any missile or artillery strikes on the cities of Ukraine. High-precision weapons destroy military infrastructure: military airfields, aviation, air defense facilities of the Armed Forces of Ukraine,” the statement read.

But despite the Russian military’s claims that civilians wouldn’t be targeted, many chose to leave the capital. Kyiv residents had previously been told to stay at home and pack a bag with necessities, in case they needed to leave abruptly.

Witnesses told CNN that subway stations had become improvised bunkers and were full of people, with supplies organized in groups.

Across the city, red arrows painted on walls indicate the locations of the nearest bomb shelters. The city first put them up after the war broke out in the east of the country in 2014, but they were recently repainted.

A local resident sits in a car as they pack to leave Mariupol, eastern Ukraine.
A local resident sits in a car as they pack to leave Mariupol, eastern Ukraine. Carlos Barria/Reuters
Before Putin’s address, Russia issued a notice banning civil aircraft from flight routes bordering northeastern Ukraine. Separately, Ukrainian aviation authorities issued a notice restricting Ukrainian airspace in the regions around Kyiv, Dnipro, Lviv, Odessa and Simferopol.

European aviation regulators warned civilian aircraft were at “high risk” near the Ukrainian border. “Air operators are reminded that this is now an active conflict zone,” said the European Union Aviation Safety Agency, known as EASA.

In an apparent escalation in cyberattacks on Ukrainian infrastructure, several key Ukrainian websites were down as of 3 a.m local time on Thursday (8 p.m. ET Wednesday), including those of Ukraine’s Foreign Ministry, Interior Ministry, the Security Service in Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Infrastructure, and the Ministry of Justice.

Military operation comes as UN Security Council meets
The launch of the military operation came as members of the UN Security Council met in New York to call for a peaceful resolution to the impending crisis.

In ordering troops to enter Ukraine, Putin had “delivered a message of war,” said US Ambassador to the UN Linda Thomas-Greenfield.

“This is a grave emergency. The council will need to act,” she said. “We will put a resolution on the table tomorrow.”


See Ukrainian ambassador's reaction as Russian counterpart defends Moscow's attacks
01:49 - Source: CNN
Her Ukrainian counterpart Sergiy Kyslytsya begged the Security Council to help stop a war, saying it was too late to speak about de-escalation.

“It is the responsibility of this body to stop the war,” Kyslytsya said. “So I call on every one of you to do everything possible to stop the war,” he added, looking around the room.

Permanent Representative of the Russian Federation to the UN Vasily Nebenzya said the aim of Russia’s military operation in Donbas was to protect locals who have been “suffering genocide” at the hands of the Ukrainian government for over eight years.

“The route of today’s crisis around Ukraine is the actions of Ukraine itself, who for many years were sabotaging its obligations under the Minsk package of measures,” said Nebenzya.

Source: CNN
The electric vehicle (EV) battery industry has just started in Malaysia. The country is blessed with mineral resources. Research from the Minerals and Geoscience Department revealed that Malaysia contains a total of RM 4.11 trillion (approximately US$982 billion) worth of unmined minerals in the 3 main categories. Metallic minerals such as nickel, manganese, copper, and aluminum, which are used in EV battery production included.

Meanwhile, China has banned the import of complex materials such as insulated copper wire and shredded motor scrap since 2019. The country has to rely on imports for the raw materials it needed to power its EV batteries, especially aluminum. A DIGITIMES Asia recent report, "2022 EV battery value-chain outlook in Asia," provides a comprehensive overview of the Malaysia EV battery industry. Below is the summary of the report.

According to The Star, China's aluminum volumes were up 24% in 2020 and have surpassed 1.43 million tons imported in 2009. The net imports of unwrought primary aluminum reached 1.57 million tons and those of unwrought alloy 1.00 million tons last year. This makes China the only historical precedent for the world's largest producer to need more aluminum in such high quantities.

These regulations, however, offer a huge opportunity for recycling companies in Malaysia. To date, Malaysia was China's largest exporter of aluminum alloy – its shipper 321,000 tons in 2021 alone, according to a report from Reuters.

Under Budget 2022, the Malaysian government initiated a new tax plan. More specifically, exempting EVs from all taxes, including import duty, excise duty, and road tax. Those who have purchased, rented, or have been paying to charge their EV will get income tax relief of up to RM2,500 (approximately US$597.23).

It's a pity that Budget 2022 does not contain anything to do with the EV manufacturing industry, whether it be EV batteries, electric vehicles, or even EV charging infrastructure.

Not only has the lack of clear, well-defined, realistic policies and plans from the Malaysian government made the emerging economy of 32 million people lag behind in EV development, but also behind its regional peers such as Singapore, Thailand, and Indonesia.

Still, DIGITIMES Asia believes that Malaysia has the potential to be the 'dark horse' in Southeast Asia's EV sphere. A recent report titled, "2022 EV battery value chain outlook in Asia" reveals the current situation of Malaysia's EV battery industry, from upstream to downstream players. To get the full content of this article, you may download the report via "2022 EV battery value-chain outlook in Asia."