Saturday, November 19, 2022 – Rishi Sunak, the new Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, made his first visit to Kyiv, pledging his continuous firm support for Ukraine and providing a new air defense package to help shoot down drones from Russia. On Twitter, Sunak said, “Britain knows what it means to fight for freedom,” and he promised he was with them all the way.

In a statement by Sunak, he said Britain would provide a new 50-million-pound ($60 million) package that includes anti-aircraft guns and technology such as radar to counter drone attacks. Britain also promised increase in the training provided to the armed forces of Ukraine.

President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, also posted a video of the two meetings in Kyiv, and he welcomed the continued support from London.

Source: Reuters
Tuesday, October 18, 2022 - The Minister for Interior of Germany has fired the country's cybersecurity chief after being alleged to have turned a blind eye to a firm linked to Russian security circles.

Reports from security sources confirm that the President of the German Federal Office for Information, Arne Schönbohm, was relieved of his duties immediately on Tuesday. 

Schönbohm, who has been in charge of the agencies since 2016, overseeing the computer and communication security of the government, came under scrutiny after his connections to a Russian company in a previous job were brought to light in a late-night satire show by Jan Böhmermann, who is a German comedian.

Before becoming the Head of the Government cybersecurity agency, Schönbohm had helped found the similarly named Cyber Security Council Germany; a group registered as a voluntary association.

Source: The Guardian
Monday, October 17, 2022 - The officials of Ukraine confirmed that at least four people were killed on Monday when Russia launched a barrage of Iranian-made "kamikaze" drone attacks in Kyiv, after which warning sirens were set off across the capital.

Reports gathered from Kyrylo Tymoshenko, a senior official working for the President of Ukraine, confirms that four people were injured during the attack, and 19 people trapped under the destruction were rescued.

The Ukrainian Air Force confirmed early Monday that it had destroyed 37 Kamikaze drones made in Iran and three cruise missiles in the south and east of the country. Denys Monastyrskyi, the Minister of Interior in Ukraine, said that the security forces were able to shoot down 36 of 42 drones launched on Monday by Russia. Monastyrskyi also said that Kyiv was the target of about 30 drones.

Source: CNN
The White House on Wednesday detailed $2.8 billion in grants to build a domestic EV battery supply chain, but more of the funds in this allocation go toward projects in states opposed to climate action, and states for which legislators voted against the law.

Part of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law passed in 2021, the funding goes to 20 battery manufacturing and raw-materials processing companies for projects across 12 states, according to a White House press release. When matched by recipients, the funding totals more than $9 billion, the White House noted.

But as The New York Times pointed out, the flow of money, which is being announced just weeks before consequential midterm elections, is weighted toward red states. The list of states where projects receiving the federal funding are located includes: Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Missouri, Nevada, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Tennessee, and Washington.

Goals for the funding include developing enough lithium supply for approximately two million EVs annually, graphite supply for 1.2 million EVs annually, and nickel supply for 400,000 EVs annually.

Grants will also fund expanded refinement and manufacturing infrastructure, including the first commercial-scale lithium electrolyte salt production facility in the United States, the first commercial-scale domestic silicon oxide production facilities (for battery anodes), and the first U.S. lithium iron phosphate (LFP) cathode facility. Another project is an electrode binder facility that aims to satisfy 45% of demand for battery binders by 2030.

In addition to funding battery supply infrastructure, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law also funnels $7.5 billion toward creation of a national EV charging network that now includes plans for all 50 states.

Outside the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Energy Department earlier this year designated more than $3 billion toward the domestic supply chain, and the Biden Administration has already turned to the Defense Production Act to bolster battery materials.

This should result in more affordable EVs in the long term. In more immediate consumer sense and over the short term, the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) and its revamped EV tax credit will mean less affordable EVs.