Tuesday, April 26, 2022 - Russia will cut natural gas supplies to Poland and Bulgaria after the two nations refused to pay in rubles, dramatically escalating existing tensions with the West. PGNiG, Poland's state-run gas company said in a statement on Tuesday that Gazprom informed it on April 26 "of its decision to fully suspend deliveries under the Yamal contract at the beginning of the contract day on April 27."

PGNiG said it would suspend gas supplies along the Yamal pipeline starting Wednesday morning, and the news sent US natural gas futures up about 3% on Tuesday.
Source: CNN
Wednesday, June 29, 2022 – Japan is experiencing its warmest day ever as part of its worst heatwave since records began in 1875. The scorching heat has prompted government warnings of an impending power outage and recommendations for citizens to save energy whenever possible.

Temperatures in Tokyo exceeded 35 degrees Celsius for the fifth day on Wednesday, marking the worst known sequence of hot weather in June since records began in 1875. Meanwhile, in Isesaki, northwest of the capital, the temperature reached 40.2 degrees Celsius, the highest ever recorded in June in Japan.

The government has advised the citizens to use air conditioning to avoid heatstroke since hospitalizations grow with the heat, and the heat is expected to persist in the coming days, according to weather forecasters.

Because of human-caused climate change, heatwaves have grown more common, more severe, and stay longer.

Source: BBC
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 - In an address to the nation, Ramaphosa said over 40,000 people had been displaced from their homes with nearly 4000 homes destroyed completely, and about 8,300 sustaining some degree of damage. “Tonight, we are a nation united in our grief,” Mr. Ramaphosa said.

The heavy rain flood and mudslides are the latest disaster in a string of powerful storms across both the southern and eastern parts of Africa, razing communities already struggling with poverty and claiming the lives of hundreds. For many, it has underscored the increasing toll of climate change, especially for the most socioeconomically vulnerable, and amplified the need for more aggressive government response in South Africa and elsewhere to stem the rising number of weather-related fatalities.

Jasper Knight, a professor of physical geography at the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg said “Very often, not just in South Africa, but in many other developing countries as well, there simply isn’t the money, there’s not the expertise and there isn’t the government will invest properly in protecting the poorest in society."
Source: The New York Times
LONDON, June 8 (Reuters) - Private equity funds are seeking a minority stake in information provider Benchmark Mineral Intelligence (BMI), aiming to gain exposure to the electric-vehicle battery supply chain, two sources with direct knowledge of the matter said.
UK-based Hg Capital and Bowmark Capital are two of several private equity firms seeking to buy a stake of up to 20% in Benchmark, which the sources says is valued in excess of 200 million pounds. The sources did not name other firms looking to buy a stake.

Bowmark said it doesn't comment on market rumours and Benchmark and Hg Capital declined to comment.
The sources would not say how the valuation was made, but they did say the process of selling a stake was being run by corporate advisory firm Cardean Bell, which declined to comment.
Interest in battery materials such as lithium, nickel, cobalt and graphite covered by Benchmark has been rising in recent years and is expected to grow at a faster pace as the energy transition from fossil fuels picks up pace and sales of electric vehicles accelerate.

"BMI doesn't just provide price assessments, it also provides detailed information about costs of production in the supply chain, cathode and anode manufacturers and battery makers," one of the sources with direct knowledge said.
"The lithium-ion battery and electric vehicle supply chain is growing at 25% a year," the source said, adding that the demand for information about the sector was growing alongside.

BMI sets reference and benchmark prices for the lithium industry, in which Elon Musk recently said "Tesla might actually have to get into the mining & refining directly at scale." read more
Subscription based Benchmark was started by Simon Moores in 2017. The company is expecting to employ more than 100 people by next year, the source said.
In its coverage of battery materials and related supply chains, Benchmark now rivals price reporting agencies such as Fastmarkets and Platts and consultants CRU and Wood Mackenzie.

"Benchmark is seen by the private equity funds as an investment for the electric vehicle revolution," the second source with direct knowledge said. "It is an ESG investment (environment, social and governance)."
Growth in the electric vehicle sector can be seen in forecasts for supplies of lithium-ion batteries expected to rise 50% this year to 600 gigawatt hours from last year.
In the auto industry, Germany's Volkswagen (VOWG_p.DE), opens new tab delivered some 452,000 battery-electric vehicles globally last year and is aiming for half of its global output to be all-electric by 2030. read more
In the United States, President Joe Biden has set a goal of 50% of new-vehicle sales being electric or plug-in electric by 2030.
