Monday, May 23, 2022 – Ontario experienced thunderstorms that started around Sarnia, a city in Ontario. The storm then went through the southern part of Ontario towards Ottawa, leaving more than 350,00 customers without power or electricity.

According to reports, similar storms went through Central Quebec on the same day, leaving more than 500,000 homes without power.

In both places, the storms destroyed homes, electricity lines, and trees, leaving the regions affected in absolute devastation. There were also reports of overturned cars as a result of the storms.

As a result of the severe winds associated with the thunderstorms, five people have died, and a few more were injured, according to weather reports from Ontario and the National Capital Region.

Reports from officials and experts say that crews have been mobilized to restore services to the affected region.

Source: CNN
Friday, June 17, 2022 – Ukraine’s bid to join the European Union received a major boost on Friday. This came after the bloc’s Executives said it believed the country should be formally considered for candidate status due to Russia’s invasion.

The European Commission’s President, Ursula von der Leyen, who spoke in Brussels, said the commission recommends “that Ukraine is given candidate status." This is, of course, on the understanding that the country will carry out a number of further reforms.

Another country that the commission recommended for candidate status is Ukraine’s neighbor, Moldova. The leaders of the 27 EU member states are set to meet for a summit next week to discuss their options. 

Volodymyr Zelensky said at a joint press conference in Kyiv on Thursday that Russia’s attack on his country amounted to an attack on all of Europe. Among those who were present at the conference were the German Chancellor, French President, and Italian Prime Minister.

Source: CNN 
Wednesday, June 22, 2022 – Tens of thousands of people in southern China have been evacuated due to flooding, and more rain is expected.

Guangdong’s manufacturing hub suspended classes, office work, and public transportation due to rising waters and the threat of landslides. Almost 500,000 people in the neighboring province of Jiangxi have had their homes damaged and their lives uprooted.

In Guangdong, roughly the same number of people have been affected, primarily in Shaoguan, Heyuan, and Meizhou.

During the summer months, flooding is common in China, particularly in the central and southern regions that receive the most rainfall. The worst floods in recent years in China occurred in 1998 when over 2,000 people died, and nearly 3 million homes were destroyed, mostly along China’s largest river, the Yangtze.

The government has significantly invested in flood control and hydroelectric projects, such as the massive Three Gorges Dam on the Yangtze River.

Source: The Guardian 
4月4日，宁德时代位于德国图林根州的首个海外工厂正式获得电芯生产许可，标志着宁德时代在全球布局方面迈出具有里程碑意义的一步。


在当天于“埃尔福特十字路口”工业区举行的庆祝仪式上，德国图林根州环境、能源及自然保护部长Anja Siegesmund及经济部长Wolfgang Tiefensee向宁德时代欧洲区联席总裁Matthias Zentgraf正式发放了第二阶段的许可证，宁德时代德国工厂由此获得8GWh的电芯产能许可。 


该工厂也是德国第一家电池工厂，目前正处于设备安装阶段，为第一批电芯能在2022年底前下线进行最后的冲刺。


“宁德时代德国工厂为全球迫切需要的能源转型带来了强大助力，我们很高兴成为第一家获准‘德国制造’的电池企业。”Zentgraf说，审批过程十分顺利快捷，与图林根州政府在审批上的合作堪称典范。
Siegesmund表示，德国的电动汽车目前发展势头迅猛，图林根欢迎从生产阶段就积极践行可持续发展理念的企业。

“对于图林根州来说，宁德时代德国工厂是近几十年来最重要的工业投资之一。”Tiefensee说，“该项目可能成为点燃‘图林根电池硅谷’的星星之火，目前已带动一大批供应商入驻这一地区。”


宁德时代德国工厂主要包含两部分：G1是从其它公司购买的厂房，用于将电芯组装成模组。G2是新建的厂房，用于生产电芯。本次许可是针对G2的电芯生产许可。

Zentgraf 表示，宁德时代德国工厂几乎与芯片工厂一样复杂，对洁净室、技术清洁度和恒定湿度有严格的要求。此外，为了实现电池生产可持续，工厂的部分能源来自厂房屋顶上的太阳能电池板。


宁德时代德国工厂于2019年开工建设，计划于2022年底正式投产，届时会向当地提供1500个就业岗位。

该工厂计划总投资18亿欧元，规划产能14GWh，未来将为当地总共提供2000个就业岗位。工厂位于德国的心脏地带，将为德国主要汽车厂商提供优质的产品和服务，助力欧洲全面电动化和能源转型。