On January 14, the Hunga Tonga-Hunga Ha'apai volcano in Tonga erupted, blasting ash into the atmosphere and causing tsunamis across the Pacific. The eruption lasted for twelve hours, and sent waves as far away as Peru and the United States. The full extent of damage in Tonga is yet unknown, as the eruption damaged cables the country relies on for telecommunications. There are confirmed casualties in Tonga and in Peru.
Forest fires have erupted in the vicinity of the Chernobyl nuclear reactor, with Ukraine claiming that Russian control of the abandoned power plant is hampering efforts to control the flames.

At least seven fires have been spotted within Chernobyl’s exclusion zone via satellite imagery taken by the European Space Agency, according to a statement by Ukraine’s parliament.

The fires were probably ignited by the “armed aggression of the Russian federation”, the parliament said, although it’s not clear whether it was shelling, arson or some other factor that caused the outbreak. Fires like these within 10km of the plant are “particularly dangerous”, the statement added, with Ukraine claiming its firefighters are unable to tackle the blazes due to Russia’s presence.

Russian forces captured the Chernobyl plant in the opening days of the invasion of Ukraine in February. The site is known for a 1986 explosion and resulting fire that caused a major nuclear disaster, spreading radioactive contamination across Europe. The plant and surrounding area have largely been sealed off since then.

However, about 200 tons of fuel remain at the bottom of the crippled reactor and is relatively unprotected. Experts have raised concern that fierce fighting in the area could damage the reactor further and cause radioactive material to escape.

Ukrainian authorities say the ongoing war is also hindering attempts to monitor radiation levels at Chernobyl. “There is no data on the current state of radiation pollution of the exclusion zone’s environment, which makes it impossible to adequately respond to threats,” said Energoatom, Ukraine’s state-run nuclear company. “Radiation levels in the exclusion zone and beyond, including not only Ukraine, but also other countries, could significantly worsen.”

In 2020, a forest fire near the reactor caused radiation levels to spike to 16 times above normal. The conflagration was extinguished after a two-week effort by firefighters, with a man arrested for allegedly starting the fire “for fun”.


Climate scientists have pointed out that such potential disasters are partially a symptom of global heating, with rising temperatures causing forests to dry out and become more suitable fuel for fire. In Europe, places from Sweden to the Mediterranean have experienced record fire outbreaks in recent years.

LeRoy Westerling, an expert in wildfires at the University of California, said warmer temperatures are causing bigger fire seasons around the world, although the situation in Ukraine is complicated “in the context of a war where there are a lot of unusual ignition sources”.

“Burning around Chernobyl is a concern because the burning may mobilize radioactive particles that were deposited decades ago when the reactors melted down,” he added.

In the Chernobyl region itself, the die-off of surrounding trees due to the nuclear disaster has left a large amount of dead, fire-prone wood that is susceptible to large blazes. In 2015, an international team of scientists warned that “an expanding flammable area associated with climate change will lead to a high risk of radioactive contamination with characteristic fire peaks in the future.” The study added that firefighting infrastructure in the area was understaffed and underfunded, even before the Russian invasion.

Separate research published last year confirmed that smoke from forest fires can carry radioactive material, and that the escalating climate crisis risks “nuclear wildfires [that] present a pressing yet little discussed problem”.

Michael Mann, a climate scientist at Penn State University, said the fires in Ukraine fitted with that pattern of climate change-fueled wildfire that has repeatedly scorched places such as the US and Australia.

Mann said the war and the climate crisis share a broader cause, namely “our continued dependence on fossil fuels”.

“Fossil fuels are what prop up authoritarian petrostates like Russia who have used the tremendous wealth they have derived from the mining and selling of fossil fuels to the rest of the world to build their military,” he said.

I hope you appreciated this article. Before you move on, I wanted to ask if you would consider supporting the Guardian’s journalism during one of the most consequential news cycles of our lifetimes.

We have never been more passionate about exposing the multiplying threats to our democracy and holding power to account in America. With President Biden vowing to stay in the race despite his stumbling debate performance, and Donald Trump emboldened by the supreme court’s ruling that presidents have immunity from prosecution for official acts, there is an urgent need for free, trustworthy journalism that foregrounds the stakes of November's election for our country and planet. 

Yet, from Elon Musk to the Murdochs, a small number of billionaire owners have a powerful hold on so much of the information that reaches the public about what’s happening in the world. The Guardian is different. We have no billionaire owner or shareholders to consider. Our journalism is produced to serve the public interest – not profit motives.

And we avoid the trap that befalls much US media: the tendency, born of a desire to please all sides, to engage in false equivalence in the name of neutrality. We always strive to be fair. But sometimes that means calling out the lies of powerful people and institutions – and making clear how misinformation and demagoguery can damage democracy.

From threats to election integrity, to the spiraling climate crisis, to complex foreign conflicts, our journalists contextualize, investigate and illuminate the critical stories of our time. As a global news organization with a robust US reporting staff, we’re able to provide a fresh, outsider perspective – one so often missing in the American media bubble.

Around the world, readers can access the Guardian’s paywall-free journalism because of our unique reader-supported model. That’s because of people like you. Our readers keep us independent, beholden to no outside influence and accessible to everyone – whether they can afford to pay for news, or not.

Source: The Guardian
Burkina Faso: Military coup prompts fears of further instability
President Roch Kabore was deposed amid anger over violence, but analysts say the military coup could unleash more insecurity.
The military coup deposing Burkina Faso’s President Roch Kabore is the fourth in a string of recent military takeovers in West and Central Africa, prompting fears of further regional instability.

Mutinous soldiers demanding more support for their fight against armed groups announced on Monday that they had toppled the democratically elected president.

While the takeover sparked widespread international condemnation, it was greeted with significant support in Burkina Faso.

“Kabore lost the confidence of Burkinabe citizens, there is no doubt in that,” Daniel Eizenga, an analyst at the Africa Center for Strategic Studies in Washington, told Al Jazeera.

Yet, whether the takeover can deliver on the popular demand for better security or provide “an opportunity for armed insurgency groups to further build on their operations in the area” remains to be seen, Eizenga added.

Since 2015, Burkina Faso has been fighting armed campaigns by groups linked to al-Qaeda and ISIL (ISIS) that have spilled over from neighbouring Mali.

The number of attacks has risen from nearly 500 in 2020 to more than 1,150 in 2021, placing the country well ahead of Mali’s 684 and Niger’s 149 violent events.

Local security forces and civilians have been the primary victims of the violence by armed groups. More than 1.4 million people have been displaced by the conflict, according to estimates by the United Nations’ refugee agency, the UNHCR.

Alex Vines, who heads the Africa Programme at Chatham House in London, told Al Jazeera the increase in violence in Burkina Faso was preceded by a failed coup in September 2015 targeting the transitional government that followed the resignation of longtime leader Blaise Compaoré.

In its aftermath, “the intelligence and security networks were purged and greatly weakened in a response to that coup attempt”, Vines said.

“So you had a very weakened state in terms of its security apparatus, which provided an easier route for some of these groups to move in.”

Kabore’s People’s Movement for Progress (MPP) party inherited this frail security apparatus when it was elected with 53 percent of the vote in Burkina Faso’s first-ever electoral transfer of power in November 2015.

Since then, armed groups – including the Group for the Support of Islam and Muslims, or JNIM, which is aligned with al-Qaeda, and the Islamic State in the Greater Sahara (ISGS), an offshoot of ISIL – have asserted further control in rural areas and carried out attacks on the capital.

Last year, frustration over the rapidly deteriorating security situation reached a boiling point. In June, Burkina Faso witnessed the worst attack by armed groups in the history of the country when more than 130 civilians were killed in a three-hour onslaught on Solhan, a remote village in Yagha province on the eastern border with Niger, prompting calls to intensify counterterrorism efforts.

No one claimed responsibility for the killings, but government officials said it was the work of ISIL affiliates.

“I bow before the memory of the hundred civilians killed in this barbaric attack,” Kabore said in a televised address as he announced a three-day national mourning period.

A further blow to Kabore’s leadership came in November, when an attack on a gendarmerie post in the northern town of Inata killed 49 officers and four civilians.

The Inata attack “spelled Kabore’s demise”, according to Constantin Gouvy, an analyst at Clingendael’s Conflict Research Unit in The Hague.

Reports that officers had gone for weeks without food provisions and adequate equipment sparked protests and widespread popular indignation. Additionally, in an effort to quell the calls for his resignation and shore up support within the army, Kabore appointed Lieutenant-Colonel Paul-Henri Sandaogo Damiba as commander of Burkina Faso’s third military region, tasked with protecting the capital Ouagadougou from attacks.

Ironically, Gouvy said, the man called upon by Kabore to rescue his democratically elected government turned out to be the leader of the military coup that deposed him on Monday.

Kabore’s whereabouts remain unknown, despite statements by the military government that detained officials were being held “in a secure place”.

Damiba was named the leader of the newly established Patriotic Movement for Safeguard and Restoration (MPSR).

In contrast to the deposed president, Damiba has sought to present himself as an expert in countering terrorism. A graduate of the military academy in Paris, he is the author of a book titled West African Armies and Terrorism: Uncertain Responses? in which he analysed anti-terrorism strategies in the Sahel region and their limits.

However, his plan for battling the armed groups remains unclear.

“There is a lot that is still unknown, including how he justifies that he would be better at dealing with the situation than Kabore,” Gouvy said.

“He has military experience but it’s unlikely that just a change in leadership will solve the issue,” including the army’s funding problem, he added.

‘No guarantee’ for rights

Kabore’s removal was welcomed by hundreds of Burkinabe on the streets of Ouagadougou on Tuesday. Among the crowd, some also welcomed the coup as a liberation from the country’s former colonial power, France.

Paris had expanded its military cooperation with Burkina Faso at President Kabore’s request, including the country in its Operation Barkhane battling armed groups in Africa’s Sahel region. Its intervention sparked some criticism among citizens and state officials in Burkina Faso.

Pro-military demonstrators also held Russian flags, calling for an intervention similar to that that occurred in the Central African Republic, where Russian mercenaries fought off an armed uprising last year.

Russia has also admitted providing military assistance through state channels in Mali, despite Bamako denying the presence of Russian mercenaries from the Wagner Group following allegations by Western powers.

No indication has yet emerged as to whether Damiba may turn to Russia for security cooperation. However, Vines said Moscow has been looking to position itself as an alternative to Western intervention in a context where discontent is simmering.

“Burkina Faso could be a logical place for the Russians to also work with the junta,” Vines said, adding however that Moscow risks becoming enmeshed in the politics of authoritarian regimes and progressively isolated by democratic governments in the continent.

The 15-country West African bloc the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) will hold a special session on Friday to discuss how to respond to the fourth military coup in the past year, after Mali, Chad and Guinea.

“There is concern among ECOWAS members that this [trend] could spread even further,” Gouvy said, adding that the bloc is likely carefully considering its toolbox.

Harsh sanctions imposed on Mali after coup leader Assimi Goita announced a five-year delay to return to constitutional rule turned out to be “a double-edged sword” as they have lent the military government more support, Gouvy said.

Damiba has pledged to return to Burkina Faso constitutional rule “within a reasonable time”.

But according to Eizenga, the coup marks a dangerous departure from the democratic path the country had embarked on after 27 years of Compaoré’s rule.

“People [in Burkina Faso] felt like they had been demanding change and they hadn’t been receiving it and that’s a policy failure,” Eizenga said. “But coups d’etat fundamentally disrupt [the democratic process] by putting unelected officials in power by force.”

“There is then no guarantee for citizens’ rights and their civil liberties.”



Key Points
Indonesia wants to develop an integrated electric vehicle (EV) supply chain and become an EV battery producer and exporter. Southeast Asia’s largest economy has the ambitious goal to make batteries with a capacity of 140 gigawatt hours (GWh) in 2030, which is nearly as much as global EV battery production in 2020.

The country’s ambitions are motivated from upstream and downstream the supply chain: the world’s biggest nickel producer wants to capitalize on its mineral resources but also aims to reduce emissions by creating a domestic EV market.

Upstream the supply chain, Indonesia leverages its nickel reserves and applies restrictive measures to attract foreign investment in nickel processing. Midstream and downstream, Southeast Asia’s largest car market offers incentives for EV battery (component) producers, EV manufacturers, and EV buyers.

South Korean investments are currently building the country’s first EV battery plant, scheduled to start production in 2024, as well as its first EV plant. Nickel processing for use in batteries started in 2021, with more projects in the pipeline, mainly due to Chinese investments.

Whether or not Indonesia can reach its goal to produce 140 GWh in 2030 will depend on attracting substantial foreign investment over the next few years. The government will have to further address challenges to conducting business in Indonesia as well as environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) concerns related to nickel mining and processing.
Analysis
Vision 
Indonesia wants to develop an integrated domestic EV supply chain, from mining and processing battery metals to the production of precursor cathode active materials, battery cells, battery packs, EVs, and eventually battery recycling. The government has the ambitious goal to produce EV batteries with a total capacity of 140 GWh per year by 2030—from zero EV battery production today. One-third of the future production is planned to be exported, while the remainder should be used for the domestic EV industry, which is just starting to be developed.

For context, Indonesia’s goal to manufacture 140 GWh in 2030 is in the same order of magnitude as the total global EV battery production in 2020 (160 GWh); however, as demand is rising rapidly, 140 GWh will only be about 4 to 9 percent of the global demand in 2030 (as forecasted by the International Energy Agency, depending on the applied scenario).

Indonesia’s goal to become an EV battery producer and exporter is motivated from upstream and downstream the supply chain.

Upstream the battery supply chain, the world’s biggest nickel producer wants to capitalize on its natural resources. Attracting foreign investments in nickel processing means adding value to the mined nickel ore compared to just exporting it. Nickel and cobalt, which is a by-product of nickel processing for batteries in Indonesia, are key ingredients for the production of most EV batteries today.

Downstream the battery supply chain, Southeast Asia’s biggest and growing car market aims not only to attract foreign investment in the EV industry but also to develop a domestic EV market to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Presidential Regulation No. 55/2019 mandates the development of a domestic EV industry as a national priority to “increase the energy efficiency . . . in the transportation sector” in the context of Indonesia’s commitment to reduce GHG emissions.

Indonesia has committed to reduce 29 percent of its GHG emissions against the business as usual (BAU) scenario by 2030. Subject to availability of international support for finance, technology transfer, and development and capacity, Indonesia states it could reduce its emissions up to 41 percent by 2030. The government has set a target of having 13 million electric motorcycles and 2.2 million electric cars on the roads by 2030 (like in several middle-income countries in Asia, there are more motorcycles (112 million) than cars (15 million) in Indonesia). The extent to which EV adoption will not only support cleaner air in cities, but really reduce emissions, will of course depend on how the electricity fueling the EVs is produced; the power mix of the world’s second-largest coal producer is still emission intensive, with a coal share of about 60 percent.

Strategy
Indonesia applies a carrot-and-stick approach to developing an end-to-end EV supply chain and to becoming an EV battery producer and exporter: upstream (mining and processing), the country leverages its nickel reserves and applies restrictive measures, while midstream (EV battery production) and downstream (EV production and EV adoption), it offers incentives.

Upstream: If You Want Indonesia’s Nickel, You Must Process It There

On the upstream end of the supply chain, Indonesia leverages its abundant nickel reserves and applies restrictive measures, guided by its 2009 Mineral and Coal Mining Law (Law No. 4/2009). Another commentary in this series offers a closer look at these measures and Indonesia’s nickel strategy.

The country’s most radical regulation is its export ban on unprocessed nickel ore that was imposed in 2014, relaxed in 2017, and reimposed in 2020. On the backdrop of a looming nickel supply shortage, the ban successfully persuaded foreign companies to set up processing plants in Indonesia, although nickel production for the battery supply chain from Indonesia’s laterite deposits has inherent risks and challenges, including ESG issues. Most companies investing in nickel processing in Indonesia are from China, the world’s biggest battery producer and second-largest EV market (Europe overtook long-term leader China in 2020).

There are several nickel processing projects in the pipeline in Indonesia, and they will be key to future global nickel supply for batteries, at least in the near term. The first three plants started (trial) production in 2021. But it is unclear to what extent the output of the mostly Chinese-invested nickel processing projects will be available for the domestic supply chain, as they might have fixed delivery contracts with Chinese firms.

This might be a reason why the country is considering levying an export tax on nickel products with less than 70 percent nickel content. Such an export tax would target, inter alia, an intermediate product called mixed hydroxide precipitate (MHP, typically 34 to 55 percent nickel content), which is the output of high-pressure acid leaching (HPAL) plants; most of Indonesia’s new or projected processing plants for the battery supply chain are HPAL plants and produce MHP. To avoid the considered tax, companies would have to climb further up the supply chain in Indonesia. The Chinese-Indonesian joint venture that built the country’s first commissioned HPAL plant, for instance, already has plans to produce precursor cathode active material in Indonesia.

Midstream and Downstream: Incentives for EV Battery (Component) Producers, EV Manufacturers, and EV Buyers

Midstream and downstream the supply chain, Indonesia offers incentives. Presidential Regulation No. 55/2019 serves as overarching guidance for developing policies to accelerate the domestic EV industry. It identifies responsibilities and suggests incentives.

The Ministry of Industry can determine technical specifications for EVs (Article 2).

Despite spelling out local content requirements that require EV manufacturers to use domestically manufactured goods (increasing to 80 percent by 2030) and that are quite common for various industries in Indonesia, the regulation still allows the import of components such as battery cells for a certain period after setting up an EV manufacturing plant (Articles 8, 11, 12, and 13).

The government can limit the use of internal combustion engine cars to accelerate EV adoption (Article 16).

The central government and regional governments are to provide fiscal and non-fiscal incentives, such as for companies in the EV (component) industry, in battery recycling or EV charging, and for research institutions (Article 17). These can include tax exemptions, import duty exemptions, reduced parking fees, or reduced electricity tariffs at charging stations (Article 19).

The Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources is to regulate the electricity tariffs for charging EVs (Article 27).

End-of-life batteries must be recycled (Article 32).

The Coordinating Ministry on Maritime and Investment Affairs heads a
committee of various ministries that is charged with implementing the regulation (Article 34).
Several central and regional government regulations promoting the EV industry have already been adopted based on Presidential Regulation No. 55/2019, but stronger policies are needed to convert the regulation’s strategic guidance into real action.

For the moment, Indonesia does not have domestic EV battery cell or EV production, and it is lagging in EV adoption compared to the leading markets in Europe, China, and the United States. But the country’s first domestically produced EV battery cells and EVs are already on the horizon: South Korea’s carmaker Hyundai and battery giant LG Energy Solution (LGES, which supplies batteries to companies such as General Motors, Tesla, and Volkswagen) are currently building Indonesia’s first EV battery cell plant, with a planned annual production capacity of 10 GWh. In this gigafactory, LGES will produce its new nickel-rich nickel-cobalt-manganese-aluminum (NCMA) battery cells, which contain 90 percent nickel in their cathodes. The plant is expected to start production in 2024. The battery cells will be used by Hyundai and its affiliate, Kia. According to the government, LGES’s investment in the $1.1 billion plant is part of a $9.8 billion EV battery investment deal.

The government states further that China’s battery giant CATL (which supplies batteries to companies such as Tesla, BMW, and Volkswagen) plans to invest $5 billion in Indonesia. CATL’s recycling arm Brunp has already invested in a nickel processing project led by Chinese battery material producer GEM. However, at this point, it is unclear from media reports how binding the agreements with LGES and CATL are.

There have also been rumors about an investment by EV market leader Tesla. But the U.S. company seems to be reluctant, presumably due to ESG issues associated with nickel production and the challenging business environment in Indonesia, including the requirement to partner with the country’s state-owned companies (the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business index ranks Indonesia 73rd among 190 economies).

Another step up the EV supply chain leads to Indonesia’s first EV manufacturing plant, also a project of Hyundai and currently under construction. The first EV “made in Indonesia” is scheduled to be produced in 2022. According to the government, further car manufacturers, such as Japan’s Toyota, Mitsubishi, Honda, and Suzuki, also have plans to produce EVs in Indonesia.

It is worth mentioning that EV battery chemistry development could become a risk for Indonesia’s plans to develop an integrated EV industry. There has been a revival of the LFP battery, which is cheaper than nickel-rich batteries and does not contain nickel or cobalt. An EV buyer in a middle-income country such as Indonesia might favor more affordable EVs with LFP batteries over cars with high-performance nickel-rich batteries. This means that future EV manufacturers in Indonesia could prefer to use LFP batteries made in China over nickel-rich batteries made in Indonesia, which could become an additional challenge for implementing local content requirements.

Indonesia Wants Its State-Owned Companies to Be Involved

In March 2021, the Indonesia Battery Corporation (IBC) was founded. The IBC consists of four state-owned companies in the mining and energy sector: mining industry holding company MIND ID, nickel miner Aneka Tambang (Antam), electric utility PLN, and oil and gas company Pertamina.

Foreign EV battery companies investing in Indonesia are required to partner with IBC, although none of the companies forming IBC have experience in manufacturing EV batteries. This measure is likely aimed at technology transfer and job creation. However, IBC’s exact role in these partnerships remains foggy from publicly available information. For example, the international trade press reports that Indonesia’s first battery plant under construction is a 50:50 joint venture of Hyundai and LGES, while an official Indonesian government website says that the factory is owned by IBC and LGES.

Geography
LGES and Hyundai’s EV battery plant is under construction in proximity to Hyundai’s EV plant east of the current capital Jakarta; established transportation networks, including airports and ports, have attracted several large-scale automotive industrial complexes to this area. Nickel mining and processing takes place about 1,000 to 1,500 miles away in nickel-rich Sulawesi and North Maluku Islands.

Isabelle Huber is a visiting fellow with the Energy Security and Climate Change Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C.

This commentary is made possible by support from the Hewlett Foundation.