Friday, September 23, 2022 – The financial market has reacted to the biggest tax-cutting moves in 50 years, as the pound has fallen to a fresh 37-year low against the dollar. The stocks of the United Kingdom also dropped after chancellor Kwasi Kwarteng outlined a series of tax cuts and economic measures in a massive shake-up of the country’s finances. 

Pounds drooped below $1.09 after falling more than 3% against the dollar. Recently, the pound sterling has fallen due to the worry about the economy, and partly due to the stronger US dollar. On Friday, the pound also fell more than 1% against the euro, which dropped to €1.09.

According to Bloomberg data, analysts expect that by August 2023, the UK interest rate to hit 5.2%, with high expectations that there could be a one percentage point interest rate hike at the next meeting of the bank of England in November.
Sunday, September 4, 2022 – The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denys Shmyhal, has thanked Germany for its solidarity in the face of the Russian invasion and calls for more weapons. This is seen as a sign of easing the tension between Berlin and Kyiv.

On Sunday, German chancellor Olaf Scholz welcomed Denys Shmyhal with military honors in Berlin, as he is the most senior Ukrainian official to visit the German capital in months since Kyiv accused the European Union's biggest economy of doing too little.

After the meeting with Steinmeier, Shmyhal, in a tweet, said the matter discussed in the meeting was the military situation, strengthening sanctions, and the need to provide weapons for Ukraine.

Before his trip, Shmyhal told German media, "Germany has made huge progress in supporting Ukraine with weapons." He also added that Kyiv needed more from Berlin, which includes “modern combat tanks” such as the Leopard 2.

Source: The Guardian
Wednesday, September 14, 2022 - A court situated in South Korea has issued an arrest warrant for Do Kwon, the primary developer of cryptocurrencies Luna, and TerraUSD, whose collapse in May the affected crypto market around the world. In the wake of the collapse, investors have accused Kwon of fraud. He also founded the blockchain platform Terraform Labs. 

On Wednesday, a spokesperson of the prosecutors, without elaborating, confirmed that" an arrest warrant has been issued for a total of six people, including Do Kwon, who currently resides in Singapore.

The order for arrest came after months of investigation, which included search and seizure operations at related offices and local cryptocurrency exchange. Blockchain analysis from Elliptic confirms that over $42 billion were lost by investors of the two coins.  

The aftermath of the turmoil in the market led to the failure of several major crypto companies, including United States crypto lender Celsius and Singapore-based crypto fund managers Three Arrows Capital.

Son: CNN
The electric battery maker SPARAR 0.0%KZ announced the location of a factory it will build in West Virginia — the byproduct of the Inflation Reduction Act. The plant will produce storage devices with no cobalt, a raw material mined in the Democratic Republic of Congo and processed in China.

The move is a harbinger of what is to come — the domestic mining of essential raw elements and building batteries in the United States. The 482,000-square-foot factory in Bridgeport, W.V. will initially employ 350 people. The California-based battery producer said it has an agreement with the United Mine Workers to hire and train idled workers, marking what could become coal country’s turnaround.

To start, the factory will build batteries that go into forklifts and farm equipment and those used for energy storage that harnesses electrons and releases them later. But over time, the plant will gear up for an expected boom in the electric vehicle market. EVs now make up about 2% of cars worldwide. But the Bank of AmericaBAC +2% says it could be as high as 25% in 2025 and 50% in 2030 in the U.S.