Wednesday, August 3, 2022 – The US House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, the most senior US politician to visit Taiwan in 25 years, departed on Wednesday after meeting with leaders in Taipei’s capital. 

The Chinese government accused the United States of violating China’s sovereignty under the disguise of democracy. Wang Yi, Foreign Minister of China, said, “those who play with fire will not come to a good end, and those who offend China will be punished.” 

In a statement following the visit, Nancy Pelosi said that China cannot “prevent world leaders or anyone from traveling to Taiwan to pay respect to its flourishing democracy, highlight its many successes, and reaffirm our commitment to continued collaboration.” 

Pelosi’s visit was not approved by her party colleague, President Joe Biden, who had said the American military felt it was “not a good idea right now” considering the high tension between the two countries.

Source: BBC 
Wednesday, September 14, 2022 - A court situated in South Korea has issued an arrest warrant for Do Kwon, the primary developer of cryptocurrencies Luna, and TerraUSD, whose collapse in May the affected crypto market around the world. In the wake of the collapse, investors have accused Kwon of fraud. He also founded the blockchain platform Terraform Labs. 

On Wednesday, a spokesperson of the prosecutors, without elaborating, confirmed that" an arrest warrant has been issued for a total of six people, including Do Kwon, who currently resides in Singapore.

The order for arrest came after months of investigation, which included search and seizure operations at related offices and local cryptocurrency exchange. Blockchain analysis from Elliptic confirms that over $42 billion were lost by investors of the two coins.  

The aftermath of the turmoil in the market led to the failure of several major crypto companies, including United States crypto lender Celsius and Singapore-based crypto fund managers Three Arrows Capital.

Son: CNN
Friday, July 29, 2022 - Russia’s defense ministry made a statement that 40 Ukrainian war prisoners had been killed by Ukrainian shelling of a prison held by separatists in Donetsk, but Ukraine’s military denied carrying out such an operation and instead said it was Russia that shelled the prison. 

Ukraine’s General Staff said the Russian occupants pursued their goals to accuse Ukraine of committing ‘war crimes.’ He also said, “the Russian reports aim to hide the torture of prisoners and shootings committed there by the orders of the occupation administration and the command of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation.” 

A spokesperson of the Russian-backed separatist Donetsk People’s Republic, Daniil Bezsonov, stated that the strike was a “direct hit on a barracks holding prisoners.” There might be an increase in the number of people killed. 

The Russian defense ministry also claimed that US-made Himars artillery was used to carry out the operation and accused Ukraine of a deliberately perpetrated provocation.

Source: BBC
2022年8月12日，宁德时代正式宣布在匈牙利东部城市德布勒森建设电池工厂，规划产能为100GWh，投资金额73.4亿欧元。这也是继德国工厂后，宁德时代在欧洲建设的第二座工厂。经股东大会等程序批准后，首栋厂房将于年内破土动工。



该项目位于德布勒森南部工业园区，占地221公顷，将为欧洲的汽车制造商生产电芯及模组产品。



匈牙利德布勒森市地处欧洲心脏地带，宁德时代德布勒森工厂靠近奔驰、宝马、Stellantis、大众等客户的整车厂，有利于宁德时代更好地响应欧洲市场的需求，进一步完善全球战略布局，加速欧洲电动化与能源转型。



宁德时代将践行减少电池制造碳足迹的承诺，大量使用可再生能源发电，并积极与当地合作伙伴探讨共同开发太阳能项目。


此外，宁德时代还将与当地合作伙伴探讨建立电池材料工厂的可能性，推动电池价值链可循环及可持续发展。


 “毫无疑问，德布勒森工厂将进一步提高我们的竞争力，帮助我们更好地响应欧洲客户的需求，从而加速欧洲电动化转型。”宁德时代创始人兼董事长曾毓群博士表示，“此次宁德时代在匈牙利的绿地投资，将是公司完善全球战略布局的一大步，也是我们为人类新能源事业做出卓越贡献的重要一步。”

匈牙利外交与对外经济部部长彼得·西亚尔托（Péter Szijjártó）表示：“全球和欧洲的经济最近正面临着巨大挑战。我们匈牙利有一个明确的目标，就是在欧洲大陆经济衰退的背景下依旧保持强劲增长。实现这一目标的最佳办法，就是吸引对电动汽车的高端投资，这是汽车行业中最具革命性的领域。此次宁德时代带来匈牙利有史以来最大的绿地投资，我们对此感到自豪。匈牙利最近已成为世界领先的电池制造中心之一，这次大规模的投资进一步巩固了我们的地位。”


宁德时代匈牙利工厂得到了众多欧洲客户的赞赏和欢迎。薛夫铭（Markus Schäfer），梅赛德斯-奔驰集团股份公司董事会成员、负责研发和采购的首席技术官表示：“宁德时代在匈牙利新建的欧洲先进工厂是我们与核心合作伙伴扩大电动车生产的又一里程碑。作为行业技术领导者、我们的合作伙伴，宁德时代将为我们在欧洲生产的下一代电动车提供性能卓越且符合碳中和标准的电池电芯，以此响应我们因地制宜的本土化采购战略。梅赛德斯-奔驰也成为新工厂在初始产能规模下的首位且最大的客户。同时令我们感到振奋的是，宁德时代匈牙利工厂致力于实现碳中和生产，这也将助推我们实现‘2039 愿景’目标。”