Thursday, May 5, 2022 - Twenty-two people have been reported dead and 40 people injured in a devastating flood in Kabul recently. The country is currently experiencing a humanitarian crisis and struggling to cope with the incidence.

The flood hit 12 provinces, a third of the provinces in the country but was more severe in the western provinces of Badghis and Fyrab and the Northern Province of Baghlan.

Apart from the death toll, 500 houses were destroyed, 2000 damaged, and 3000 acres of crops were lost to the flood. 

A Taliban Official mentioned that the Red Cross was helping out, and officials would approach other charitable international organizations for help to alleviate the situation. However, concerns about the illegitimacy of the Taliban have made the international community wonder how to help the country’s citizens without benefiting the Taliban.

Source: Reuters 
Wednesday, June 29, 2022 – Japan is experiencing its warmest day ever as part of its worst heatwave since records began in 1875. The scorching heat has prompted government warnings of an impending power outage and recommendations for citizens to save energy whenever possible.

Temperatures in Tokyo exceeded 35 degrees Celsius for the fifth day on Wednesday, marking the worst known sequence of hot weather in June since records began in 1875. Meanwhile, in Isesaki, northwest of the capital, the temperature reached 40.2 degrees Celsius, the highest ever recorded in June in Japan.

The government has advised the citizens to use air conditioning to avoid heatstroke since hospitalizations grow with the heat, and the heat is expected to persist in the coming days, according to weather forecasters.

Because of human-caused climate change, heatwaves have grown more common, more severe, and stay longer.

Source: BBC
Wednesday, May 18, 2022 - A flood from the torrential rainfall caused miners to be trapped in a Canadian-owned mine. Since the accident, A 24-hour-a-day rescue effort employing specialized equipment brought in from Ghana and South Africa has been underway.

It has taken about 4 weeks to reach the first rescue chambers that could be a point of refuge for the trapped miners. However, no miner was found in the chamber, located at about 560 meters from the surface.

Millions of liters of water have been pumped out of the mine. The rescue engineers have found it difficult to work in humid conditions to save their colleagues. All efforts are directed towards reaching the second refuge chamber, located at about 710 meters from the surface.

The miners’ wives have gathered close to the area in prayer congregations, with tears and hopes that their husbands will be found alive.

Source: BBC
As the world continues its transition to electrification and clean energy, establishing stable and sustainable sources for tin production is essential. Countries such as Australia are incredibly well positioned to fulfill this need.

Lithium may be the battery metal that has everyone's attention, but it's easy to forget that tin plays a part that’s also incredibly important.

At one point used primarily for corrosion resistance on steel and iron, tin has also seen frequent use in the food and beverage sector. Yet recent years have seen both of these applications fade from prominence, with most tin getting reallocated to meet a different industry demand.

Today, nearly 50 percent of all tin demand is tied to its role in soldering for electrical connections. Tin is also seeing increased use as a core component of lithium-ion batteries. Unfortunately, current production is increasingly unable to keep up with demand, particularly since a large volume of the metal is currently sourced from high-risk areas.

The underappreciated, unsung critical mineral
The secret to tin's role in battery production is largely tied to its original use. Because the metal is protected by an oxide film, it resists corrosion from distilled seawater and soft tap water. It is also highly resistant to strong acids, alkalis and acid salts.

As noted by the Cornell Chronicle, this makes tin an ideal solution to an ongoing problem with battery anodes composed of lithium and similar alkali substances. Although highly conductive, these metals are also incredibly reactive when exposed to traditional battery electrolytes. Prolonged use tends to lead to the formation of metallic structures known as dendrites, which significantly shorten battery life.

However, if tin is added to a carbonate-based electrolyte, it creates a barrier that protects the anode from reactivity, significantly increasing the battery's lifespan. Tin has also been found to dramatically increase the battery performance. Finally, a tin-aluminum alloy discovered in 2019 may potentially double the charge capacity of lithium ion batteries.

Other potential benefits of tin for battery manufacturing includes reusability, reduced cost and durability.

It should come as little surprise that tin demand is projected to surge in the coming decade, reaching up to 60,000 metric tons (MT) per year by 2030. And therein lies the problem. The world currently faces a steadily worsening tin deficit, with tin prices nearly doubling in 2021.

A dwindling global supply
Currently, China is the top global tin provider, producing 91,000 MT of the battery metal in 2021. Unfortunately, in the wake of governmental pressure, the country recently opted to cut its tin exports by 40 percent, further exacerbating an already pressing shortage. It is currently unclear if China intends to increase domestic use of tin or begin stockpiling the metal as it does with copper, zinc, cobalt and aluminum.

To make matters worse, Indonesia, the second largest global producer, recently announced its intention to delay new export permits due to administrative problems. Other top producers include the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Indonesia, Malaysia and Myanmar. Given that many of these nations are high-risk and prone to geopolitical instability, the current global supply chain for tin is extremely fragile, disrupted by even minor roadblocks.

There's another factor at play as well. Because tin is among several elements classified as a conflict mineral, there has recently been an increased focus and spotlight on responsible sourcing and production. To that end, the International Tin Association has introduced several new initiatives intended to discourage sourcing from "conflict affected and high risk areas" (CAHRAs).

Opportunities for tin production
As the sixth-largest global producer of tin, Australia is arguably the best option to both improve supply and increase sustainability. As a tier one country, Australia is also the fourth best mining jurisdiction in the world in terms of investment attractiveness. The country is home to extensive pre-established infrastructure, courtesy of its historical logging and mining activities.

Australia is also noteworthy for being home to the world's largest tin mine, Renison Bell. Owned and operated by the country's largest tin producer, Metals X (ASX:MLX), Renison Bell alone accounts for 85 percent of the country's known economic tin resources. In late 2020, Metals X announced that it would both increase the mine's production and extend its life by a decade.

The Renison Bell mine is situated in Tasmania state, which is home to some of Australia's richest tin deposits and most promising projects. Of the projects in Tasmania, the Great Pyramid project is one of the most noteworthy. Owned by TinOne Resources (TSXV:TORC), the project hosts a historic tin resource with significant discovery upside.

Great Pyramid is located around Pyramid Hill, and mineralization at the site suggests the presence of tin-fertile granite below the existing deposit. The current deposit is from surface down to 40 meters, has a current strike length of over 500 meters with an average width of roughly 150 meters, and the depth extent is currently unknown. To date, there are only five historical drill holes at the project greater than 150 meters deep.

TinOne seized the opportunity and commenced diamond drilling at the Great Pyramid project on April 21, 2022.

Australia's enormous lithium reserves also warrant mention — they are the second largest in the world. This makes the region compelling not only from a mining perspective, but as a major player in supporting the entire battery supply chain. One of the world's largest lithium mines, the Greenbushes project, originally produced tin.

Owned and operated by Talison Lithium, a private enterprise, Greenbushes is also currently the longest continuously operating mine in Western Australia.