US President Joe Biden has warned there is a "distinct possibility" Russia might invade Ukraine next month, the White House says.
Russia meanwhile says it sees "little ground for optimism" in resolving the crisis after the US rejected Russia's main demands.
The build-up of tens of thousands of Russian troops on Ukraine's borders in recent weeks has stoked fears of an invasion.
Russia denies it is planning an attack.
The US president made the comments in a telephone conversation with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Thursday.
"President Biden said that there is a distinct possibility that the Russians could invade Ukraine in February," White House National Security Council spokesperson Emily Horne said.
"He has said this publicly and we have been warning about this for months."
During their talk, President Biden "reaffirmed the readiness of the United States along with its allies and partners to respond decisively if Russia further invades Ukraine", a White House statement said.
Mr Zelensky said they "discussed recent diplomatic efforts on de-escalation and agreed on joint actions for the future".
Axios, citing unnamed sources, suggested the two disagreed on how imminent the threat was. Some military experts suggest Russia may be waiting for the ground in Ukraine to freeze so they can move in heavy equipment.
Another important phone call will take place on Friday, when French President Emmanuel Macron speaks directly with Russia's Vladimir Putin.
If Russia were to invade Ukraine, it would not be the first time. Russia annexed Ukraine's southern Crimea peninsula in 2014. It is also backing rebels who seized large swathes of the eastern Donbas region soon afterwards, and some 14,000 people have died in fighting there.
Also on Thursday, the US threatened to halt the opening of a key pipeline that would send Russian gas to Western Europe, if Russia invades Ukraine.
Nord Stream 2 would run from Russia to Germany, and on Thursday officials in Berlin said the project could face sanctions if Russia attacks.
Western allies say they will target Russia's economy if it invades, and the latest comments signal a hardening of their stance.
The 1,225km (760-mile) pipeline took five years to build and cost $11bn (£8bn). The energy project, which would run under the Baltic Sea, is designed to double Russia's gas exports to Germany.
But as yet it has not started operating, as regulators said in November it does not comply with German law and suspended its approval.
Russia denies any plans to invade but last month made wide-ranging security demands from the West, including that Ukraine never be allowed to join the Nato military alliance.
The US rejected this key demand, while offering what it called a "serious diplomatic path forward" to Moscow.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Thursday that the US response left "little ground for optimism", but added that "there always are prospects for continuing a dialogue, it's in the interests of both us and the Americans".
The proposals will not be made public, but US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the document made their "core principles" clear, including Ukraine's sovereignty and its right to choose to be part of security alliances such as Nato.
Russia's foreign minister Sergei Lavrov said the formal response does not address Russia's "main concern" about the alliance's expansion.
"Did I just survive a massacre?" asked a young Sudanese man when he answered my call not long after security forces had opened fire on protesters in downtown Khartoum.

Known by his Twitter name Bashy, he told how one of seven people had died last Monday afternoon in the capital.
"I was filming the protesters and walking when a bullet penetrated his chest; he died in front of me. That could have been me!"
In his mid-twenties, and usually with a smile on his face, Bashy has been protesting on the streets for the past three months.
Like many of his contemporaries, he is furious that the military seized power last October, just over two years into an agreement between the generals and a civilian coalition to share power.

Life had been improving and the economic crisis easing as civilian Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok brought Sudan in from the cold following sanctions imposed on the country during the long rule of Omar al-Bashir, accused of using the country to sponsor terrorism.
AFP Sudanese buy bread from a bakery in the capital Khartoum - 11 October 2021AFP
The economic gains of the two-year power-sharing transition have been forfeited by the coup
The former president's military allies ousted him in April 2019 in the wake of mass protests, but they then showed their reluctance to share power with those on the streets when they turned their guns on them in a devastating massacre two months later.
The outcry that followed forced the generals to agree to the transition - but as many suspected, the military was never happy with the arrangement, and the latest coup, they say, has proved them right.
'Vicious cycle'
Bashy, who has been on the front lines of the recent demonstrations documenting the rallies and marches on his social media feeds, says those on the neighbourhood committees co-ordinating the fightback on the streets are mainly young.

AFP Young people play football in the Sahafa neighbourhood in the south of Khartoum, Sudan - 1 November 2021AFP
More than half of Sudan's population have largely only known life under Omar al-Bashir
In fact it is estimated that 61% of Sudan's population is under the age of 25 and they are fed up with what Bashy terms "strong-man rule".
It is a generational conflict with the young wanting a more equitable, peaceful, and democratic future.
"We are different to previous generations," says Bashy.
"We want to stop the cycle, this vicious cycle of military coups and authoritarianism. That is why we protest - because we wish to see the end of this cycle."

Loyalists reinstated
The protesters feel they have legitimacy on their side - and the junta has indeed been dealt a blow by the resignation earlier this month of Mr Hamdok.
In the aftermath of the coup he was put under house arrest - but then signed a new deal with the generals - something his civilian coalition, the Forces for Freedom and Change (FFC), rejected.
Getty Images Gen Abdel Fattah al-Burhan in December 2021Getty Images
Gen Abdel Fattah al-Burhan's attempt to bring the civilian PM on board has backfired
He only lasted six weeks before realising he could not work without the political backing of the FFC.
Some of the economic reforms he brought in - applauded by the international community - were painful for everyone, but his attempts to dismantle the old guard's hold on the economy also ruffled feathers.

Indeed, this week, Sudan's military ruler Gen Abdel Fattah al-Burhan finally appointed a caretaker administration, which includes some of those Bashir loyalists, to steer the country to elections.
Nidal, whose name has been changed to protect her identity, is a seasoned protester - first taking to the streets during the Arab spring when people began to brave the streets.
AFP Sudanese demonstrators carry posters of killed protesters in Khartoum - 30 December 2021AFP
More than 70 people have died and thousands have been injured since October
She believes the military's harsh treatment of the protesters - more than 70 have died so far - is forcing those organising the demonstrations to become more tactical - or more cohesive.
"You can sense the military is doing us a favour - the more of us they kill, helps us the people to come together, reshape our nationalist sentiment and foster a new patriotism for building a new country."

Since independence the armed forces have monopolised any sense of patriotism.
But their actions - in particular those of the former paramilitary unit, the Rapid Support Forces led by Mohamed Hamdan "Hemeti" Dagolo - and their role in the massacre of June 2019 means much of the respect they were once afforded has been lost by young Sudanese.
For Nidal, the demonstrations have had a devastating effect on her family: one of her 18-year-old cousins was shot dead by soldiers in December.
When I spoke to her late one evening this week she had just been to various barricades in Khartoum to round up her many other cousins to check they were all safe.
Yet the situation has just made them all the more determined - because they feel they can really make a difference.

"I am ready to die," she told me.
Trust broken
In mid-January, the junta announced that it was setting up a counter-terrorism force to deal with the security challenges posed by the protests - which are also hitting the economy.
Viewing peaceful protesters as terrorists is seen by many as taking a leaf out of the Bashir-era rule book.
EPA Protesters by bricks at a barricade in Khartoum, Sudan - January 2022EPA
The barricades are organised by neighbourhood committees - and some are blocking key roads
In their statements, the authorities note how many policemen are injured on duty during the nationwide protests - with little regard to the death of demonstrators.

This week, the death of a police brigadier general has been blamed on the protesters, but activists dispute this and say it is being used as an excuse to unleash yet more force.
And this week's violence came after an Al Jazeera channel that had been carrying live feeds of the demonstrations and rallies was banned.
The crackdown on media freedoms has become unrelenting: journalists have been beaten and assaulted, media offices attacked and international media barred.
There has been a flurry of diplomatic activity to break the stalemate, including a consultation process launched by the UN.
But many Sudanese have little faith in the UN, given it backed the failed November pact entered into by Mr Hamdok.

And the protesters just want the military out of any government as they feel the generals are not to be trusted.
"No negotiations, no partnership, no legitimacy" is the rallying cry of the current pro-democracy movement.
Against this backdrop, the Friends of Sudan met this week to try and hammer out a solution.
This group includes the US, the UK, European states and junta allies Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.
Yet both Bashy and Nidal sound unimpressed by such efforts - and they agree the counter-terror force will not cow them.

"We are world class in peaceful resistance, Monday's massacre will not deter us," Bashy said.
"We are not letting them take our blood, sweat and tears and use it for their own gains."
Source: BBC
Medan, Indonesia – The new year has got off to a wet start on the island of Sumatra in Indonesia after torrential rains displaced some more than 30,000 people and left two children dead, according to the country’s Disaster Mitigation Agency.

Heavy rain has pummelled parts of the western island including Jambi and Aceh provinces for days raising fears that the flooding will harm the local economy and lead to a spike in COVID-19 cases.

Muhammad Hatta says his village on the outskirts of the town of Lhoksukon in Aceh Province has been underwater since the beginning of the year, and there is little sign of respite.

Hatta, his wife and three sons managed to prevent the floodwaters from entering their home by blocking off their downstairs kitchen.

But while they have decided to stay put, they fear that the worst may be to come.

“We are more worried about what happens after the floodwaters subside,” Hatta told Al Jazeera.

“All the rice paddies in the area are underwater. The farmers were just about to harvest them, but crops usually die after three or four days of being completely submerged. The farmers will have lost everything.”

Aerial footage filmed by Hatta and seen by Al Jazeera showed impassable streets in and around his village, and homes submerged in milky brown water.


In addition to the ruined rice crop, Hatta says that day labourers in the area have also been unable to work due to the floods.

“The local economy has been destroyed,” he said.

The milky brown waters rose to the roof of buildings around the Aceh town of Lhoksukon 
Floodwaters have risen in Lhoksukon and surrounding villages in Aceh province, Indonesia,  since the start of the year [Supplied/Hamdani]
Parts of neighbouring Malaysia have also been inundated after heavy rains lashed the country, forcing thousands into temporary shelters. More than 50 people have died as a result of the floods across the country, which have affected the states of Selangor, Johor and Melaka, across the Strait of Malacca from Sumatra, particularly badly.

Hatta says the flooding occurs in the area every year and that the government needed to prevent it from happening again by clearing sediment from the surrounding rivers – making them deeper so that they no longer burst their banks following heavy rain.

Hamdani, the head of public relations of the North Aceh Regional Secretariat, told Al Jazeera that there were 32,854 people displaced across 16 districts in North Aceh after heavy rains carried surges of water downstream.

“Local residents have been sheltering with relatives, in mosques and prayer halls and in specially constructed emergency shelters,” he said.

On Sunday, North Aceh Regent Muhammad Thaib declared an official state of emergency in the regency as a result of the floods.

“We are working on logistics like making sure those displaced have enough food. For a few days it’s OK for people to eat instant noodles but after that we need to keep them healthy and feed them nutritious foods like tempeh, mung beans, grains and corn,” Hamdani said.

“We also need blankets for the children and babies as well as milk.”

Hamdani acknowledged that the floods were almost an annual event and said that the regional government was hoping the construction of the Keureuto Dam, slated for completion in 2023, would ease the problem. The dam will hold water from the Krueng Keureuto river and six of its tributaries.

In the meantime, the flooding comes at a particularly inopportune moment.

“COVID-19 numbers in North Aceh have been going down and I have had fewer patients coming to see me with serious symptoms in recent weeks,” Lhoksukon-based pulmonary specialist, Dr Indra Buana, told Al Jazeera.

Children stand in floodwaters in front of a wooden building with a rusted corrugated roof in Aceh
Children in the floodwaters in the villages around Lhoksukon. There are concerns about the spread of disease, including COVID-19 [Supplied/Rina Sarina]
Aceh has reported approximately 38,000 COVID-19 cases since the pandemic began and slightly more than 2,000 deaths, although it has barely registered any new cases or deaths in recent weeks.

But now, the doctor fears that the floods will cause a spate of medical conditions at the same time as the Omicron variant looms on the horizon.

“Floodwater is very dangerous,” he said. “If people inhale it they can drown or it can cause serious lung inflammation.”

“The wet and cold weather at this time of year also usually causes a rise in cases like asthma and upper respiratory tract infections.”

An added problem also comes from displaced residents fleeing their homes and sharing limited space in shelters or with family members where social distancing is difficult.

Aceh has one of the least vaccinated populations in Indonesia with just more than 1.2 million residents double vaccinated out of a population of more than 5.3 million, according to figures from the Ministry of Health.

“We are worried that there will be a spike in COVID-19 cases. It could be very dangerous if someone from outside the area who has COVID-19 visits the shelters and unwittingly infects everyone,” Dr Buana said.

“But at the same time we can’t prohibit people from bringing aid. “
Dr Venkataraman Thangadurai, Founder and Director of the Western Canada Battery Consortium, explains how a Canadian battery supply chain should be secured and discusses the future developments of next-generation battery technologies.
Driven mainly by the transition to electric vehicles (EVs), the lithium-ion battery (LIB) market is expected to exceed $129bn by 2027.1 Most of this market, around 80%, is currently retained by battery producers in Asia, with China controlling the majority of global battery material processing.2 This reliance on one country to supply battery materials makes the world vulnerable to supply chain issues. Both the European Union and the US realise the risk and are working on restructuring supply chains and procuring materials within their territories. In Canada, the government has committed to building Canadian battery and critical mineral supply chains through a “mines to mobility” approach.
Canada’s push for a domestic battery supply chain
Canada is one of the only jurisdictions in the Western hemisphere with reserves of all the critical minerals required to produce advanced high-energy and high-power-density batteries for EVs and grid-scale applications. It has a large base of crucial battery raw materials, such as cobalt, graphite, lithium, nickel, copper, and manganese.4 Importantly, the country has the infrastructure and trade agreements needed to access the US and EU, two of the largest EV markets. Finally, the country has a skilled workforce and a cutting-edge battery research and development (R&D) ecosystem.

While Canada is poised to lead in developing sustainable battery materials and technology, its path forward is not without challenges. The country is still a long way from having a mature battery supply chain, despite being home to leading battery development centres and abundant raw materials. A recent report from Clean Energy Canada (CEC),5 a climate and clean energy programme within the Morris J Wosk Centre for Dialogue at Simon Fraser University, outlined several current challenges that Canada faces in creating a well-developed, domestic battery supply chain:

Canada has minimal manufacturing capacity and lacks the processing capacity for battery-grade materials;
• Compared to other countries, Canada is slow in decision-making, causing administrative
processes, permitting, and funding allocations to have long lead times;
•    Canada’s small market size makes it difficult to scale up domestic battery supply chains and to establish major battery manufacturing facilities;
•    The country lacks significant investment in commercialisation and has a limited industrial  policy;
•    Canada cannot compete with China in terms of time and cost of producing battery goods and should look to other strengths, such as environmental, social, and governance standards and lifecycle greenhouse gas performances;
•    Uncertainty around the technology, investment flows, and new players entering the market makes it difficult for one sector in the supply chain to scale up without similar actions occurring up     and downstream; and
•    The rapidly changing nature of the technology means that supply chains are challenged to keep up with the latest product ‘recipes’ and research priorities.
Addressing the challenges above requires coordinated action from policymakers, academic institutions, and supply chain participants. The same report by CEC also outlined Canada’s priority actions in the immediate term to establish itself as a player in the global battery industry. The recommended actions mainly involve focusing funding, co-operating with the US, promoting a clean and responsible battery brand, and forming task forces from the government and enterprises. One of the strategies also involves creating a battery centre that focuses on next-generation battery technologies, advanced manufacturing, and battery recycling.

Developing next-generation battery technologies in Western Canada
Organic electrolyte-based LIBs are the predominant battery technology in the market. However, other technologies, such as all-solid-state batteries, offer greater energy densities, faster charging, and safer operation than that of the current LIBs. These next-generation battery technologies will come to dominate in the next few decades, and testing and commercialisation of such technologies could help startups move the technology into mass production. Several groups in Canada are already studying the feasibility of such advanced battery technologies.

Leading battery R&D groups and institutions are located in Eastern Canada, but battery technology and supply chain opportunities are also abundant in the Western part of the country. Lithium is available in large quantities in brines in the Western provinces, and companies in Alberta and Saskatchewan are developing lithium extraction techniques from oilfield wastewater brines. Companies in Manitoba and British Columbia are developing zero-emission marine and land transportation. Initiatives at the University of Calgary, such as the Western Canada Battery Consortium (WCBC), and its core programme, the Battery Innovation Hub (BIH), align with Canada’s goal of strengthening the battery supply chain.

Founded in 2019 by world-renowned scholar Dr Venkataraman Thangadurai, the WCBC brings together Western Canada’s battery experts and industrial partners. The BIH will provide battery researchers and industry partners the facilities and experts to help them evaluate, certify, and qualify every step of battery development. The hub’s R&D activities will include next-generation solid-state electrolyte and electrode developments, raw material extraction, refinement, processing, characterisation, advanced electrode preparation, cell assembly and testing, and safety assessments. New battery materials and technologies at every step of the manufacturing process will be evaluated, qualified, and certified in this facility to generate intellectual property. Additionally, this initiative will train and employ researchers in Canada.

The BIH also aims to provide direct service to companies and other organisations in Canada, including producers, ensuring these companies are involved with and have strong access to ongoing battery research and innovation programmes worldwide. Its ultimate goal is to foster innovation and create intellectual property to help realise commercialisation.

The consortium plans to develop safe, robust, and high-energy-density solid-state batteries with about five times the energy density as the current generation of LIBs (graphite anode, organic electrolyte, and a lithium nickel manganese cobalt oxide (NMC) cathode). The batteries from the consortium will be made from locally available lithium and sulphur resources. They will play a critical role in renewable energy integration with the electric grid and advanced battery-powered mobility and transport applications in Canada. Dr Thangadurai is leading the charge, having pioneered garnet-type ceramics (a silicate mineral structure) used in solid-state lithium batteries.6,7 His group continues to improve the technology of solid-state lithium and sodium batteries and advanced hybrid membranes for high-performance, safe batteries.