Wednesday, November 16, 2022 – The office for National Statistics said United Kingdom’s inflation rose to a fresh high in October due to Soaring energy costs, which is terrible news for an economy sliding into recession. In October, the annual inflation rate rose to 11.1%, up from 10.1% in the 12 months from September.

The rise in gas and electricity prices has caused a sharp rise in living costs, despite a government energy price guarantee, which caps energy bills at £2,500 ($2,970) for the typical household. In contrast, inflation of food prices rose to 16,4%.

In a statement by ONS chief economist Grant Fitzner, he said, “over the past year, the gas price has climbed nearly 130% while electricity has risen by around 66%.

The Data from ONS last week showed that the economy of the UK shrank in the third quarter, and the bank of England projects that the recession will continue through the first quarter of 2024.

Source: CNN
Tuesday, October 18, 2022 - The Minister for Interior of Germany has fired the country's cybersecurity chief after being alleged to have turned a blind eye to a firm linked to Russian security circles.

Reports from security sources confirm that the President of the German Federal Office for Information, Arne Schönbohm, was relieved of his duties immediately on Tuesday. 

Schönbohm, who has been in charge of the agencies since 2016, overseeing the computer and communication security of the government, came under scrutiny after his connections to a Russian company in a previous job were brought to light in a late-night satire show by Jan Böhmermann, who is a German comedian.

Before becoming the Head of the Government cybersecurity agency, Schönbohm had helped found the similarly named Cyber Security Council Germany; a group registered as a voluntary association.

Source: The Guardian
Monday, October 17, 2022 - The officials of Ukraine confirmed that at least four people were killed on Monday when Russia launched a barrage of Iranian-made "kamikaze" drone attacks in Kyiv, after which warning sirens were set off across the capital.

Reports gathered from Kyrylo Tymoshenko, a senior official working for the President of Ukraine, confirms that four people were injured during the attack, and 19 people trapped under the destruction were rescued.

The Ukrainian Air Force confirmed early Monday that it had destroyed 37 Kamikaze drones made in Iran and three cruise missiles in the south and east of the country. Denys Monastyrskyi, the Minister of Interior in Ukraine, said that the security forces were able to shoot down 36 of 42 drones launched on Monday by Russia. Monastyrskyi also said that Kyiv was the target of about 30 drones.

Source: CNN
近日，宁德时代位于德国图林根州的首个海外工厂如期实现锂离子电池电芯的量产，标志着宁德时代的全球步伐实现里程碑意义的突破。

宁德时代德国工厂首批电芯由G2厂房的第一条电芯产线顺利下仓。其余产线的安装调试正在全力进行，以顺利实现爬坡达产。


这批电芯通过了宁德时代全球产品需通过的所有测试，意味着宁德时代已具备对欧洲客户的本地生产及供货能力。


“德国工厂如期实现电芯生产，彰显了我们作为行业的可靠合作伙伴，即使面对包括新冠疫情在内的各类风险挑战，仍会信守对客户以及欧洲电动化转型的坚定承诺。”宁德时代欧洲区联席总裁Matthias Zentgraf说，“我们正在为工厂的产能爬坡全力冲刺，这也将是我们明年工作的头等大事。”


今年4月，宁德时代德国工厂正式获得图林根州8GWh的电芯生产许可。此前，工厂已于2021年第三季度在G1厂房启动模组生产。


宁德时代德国工厂计划总投资18亿欧元，规划产能14GWh，未来将为当地总共提供2000个就业岗位。

