Wednesday, April 20, 2022 - In an address to the nation, Ramaphosa said over 40,000 people had been displaced from their homes with nearly 4000 homes destroyed completely, and about 8,300 sustaining some degree of damage. “Tonight, we are a nation united in our grief,” Mr. Ramaphosa said.

The heavy rain flood and mudslides are the latest disaster in a string of powerful storms across both the southern and eastern parts of Africa, razing communities already struggling with poverty and claiming the lives of hundreds. For many, it has underscored the increasing toll of climate change, especially for the most socioeconomically vulnerable, and amplified the need for more aggressive government response in South Africa and elsewhere to stem the rising number of weather-related fatalities.

Jasper Knight, a professor of physical geography at the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg said “Very often, not just in South Africa, but in many other developing countries as well, there simply isn’t the money, there’s not the expertise and there isn’t the government will invest properly in protecting the poorest in society."
Source: The New York Times
Thursday, May 5, 2022 - Twenty-two people have been reported dead and 40 people injured in a devastating flood in Kabul recently. The country is currently experiencing a humanitarian crisis and struggling to cope with the incidence.

The flood hit 12 provinces, a third of the provinces in the country but was more severe in the western provinces of Badghis and Fyrab and the Northern Province of Baghlan.

Apart from the death toll, 500 houses were destroyed, 2000 damaged, and 3000 acres of crops were lost to the flood. 

A Taliban Official mentioned that the Red Cross was helping out, and officials would approach other charitable international organizations for help to alleviate the situation. However, concerns about the illegitimacy of the Taliban have made the international community wonder how to help the country’s citizens without benefiting the Taliban.

Source: Reuters 
Wednesday, June 29, 2022 – Ukraine secured the release of 144 of its soldiers, including 95 who defended the Azovstal steelworks in Mariupol, in the largest exchange of the crisis yet. 144 Russian and separatist soldiers were returned to Russia, according to a pro-Russian separatist leader who verified the prisoner swap.

Following the Azov men’s seizure in Mariupol, many Russian politicians advocated for their trial and even death. Several members of the State Duma of Russia have stated that they will introduce new legislation that might disrupt prisoner swaps involving fighters whom Moscow deems “terrorists.”

More than a thousand Azovstal defenders who surrendered to Moscow’s forces at the end of a three-month siege were moved to Russian-held territory in May. The fate of the troops remained a major worry for Kyiv’s leaders, who claimed they would engage in a prisoner swap.

Some Russian military bloggers and pro-war politicians reacted negatively to the plan to exchange detainees; however, Moscow did not react to the prisoner exchange.

Source: The Guardian

	Please use the sharing tools found via the share button at the top or side of articles. Copying articles to share with others is a breach of FT.com T&Cs and Copyright Policy. Email licensing@ft.com to buy additional rights. Subscribers may share up to 10 or 20 articles per month using the gift article service. More information can be found at https://www.ft.com/tour.
	https://www.ft.com/content/5a5b1cfb-bc18-44c4-8600-df2d7d6c8b14

	A South Korean consortium will invest $9bn in Indonesia to build a mines-to-manufacturing electric vehicle supply chain, as battery makers look to reduce their reliance on Chinese suppliers and mitigate commodity price rises following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

The group led by LG Energy Solution, the world’s second-biggest EV battery maker, has signed an agreement with local mining company PT Aneka Tamban (Antam) and Indonesia Battery Corporation.

The project will handle the entire battery production process including smelting and refining nickel, manufacturing precursors, cathode materials and cells, and assembling finished products in the south-east Asian country.

Indonesia is the world’s largest producer of nickel, with about 21mn tonnes of reserves, according to US Geological Survey data.

The deal comes as South Korean battery makers have increased investment in the chemicals and materials used in EV batteries to reduce their dependence on China, the world’s biggest processor of most of the minerals needed for production.

The war in Ukraine has added to the pressure to improve supply chain security. Russia accounts for 11 per cent of the world’s nickel production and prices of crucial commodities have increased significantly since the invasion.

The London Metal Exchange’s three-month nickel price has risen about 60 per cent this year to $33,175 a tonne as of April 14, increasing concern about the growing cost burden of battery makers.

The auto industry’s plans to pivot away from fossil fuel-powered vehicles has been complicated by its heavy reliance on refineries and factories in China, where about 80 per cent of battery materials are processed.

“The stable supply of raw materials has become much more important for battery producers amid the deepening crisis in Ukraine,” said Yoon Hyuk-jin, an analyst at SK Securities. “Korean battery makers need more of these upstream investments for their long-term competitiveness in order to reduce their reliance on Chinese materials.”


	Please use the sharing tools found via the share button at the top or side of articles. Copying articles to share with others is a breach of FT.com T&Cs and Copyright Policy. Email licensing@ft.com to buy additional rights. Subscribers may share up to 10 or 20 articles per month using the gift article service. More information can be found at https://www.ft.com/tour.
	https://www.ft.com/content/5a5b1cfb-bc18-44c4-8600-df2d7d6c8b14

	The consortium includes LG Chem, the parent group of LGES, steelmaker Posco, LX International, the commodity trader and miner, and Chinese company Zhejiang Huayou Cobalt.

“We expect the project to improve our battery business capability and profitability by securing competitive raw materials in a stable manner,” LGES said.

The company is also building a $1.1bn battery cell plant in Karawang Regency, 65km south-east of Jakarta, as part of a joint venture with Hyundai Motor group.    

The consortium’s investment was announced days after China’s Contemporary Amperex Technology (CATL), the world’s biggest EV battery maker, signed a $6bn deal with Indonesian companies including Antam to produce a similar project.
