Saturday, November 5, 2022 – As Seoul and Washington ended a high-profile six-day military exercise, South Korea’s military on Saturday confirmed that four short-range ballistic missiles had been fired by North Korea into the western sea.

A Series of missiles have been launched by North Korea this week, which includes a possible failed intercontinental ballistic missile, which drew condemnation from South Korea, Japan, and the United State and also raises speculation that it could be preparing to resume nuclear weapons testing for the first time since 2017.

The launches on Saturday, between 11:31 and 11:59 a.m., happened as South Korea and the United State finished the exercise known as “Vigilant Storm,” which they began on Monday. Seoul confirmed that the missiles flew about 80 miles, reaching an altitude of about 10 miles.

Source: Reuters
Tuesday, November 1, 2022 – The President of the United States, Joe Biden, has accused oil companies of "war profiteering" as the possibility of a windfall tax was raised if the companies do not boost domestic production.

While giving a remark, with just over a week left from the midterm election due to hold on November 8, President Biden criticized significant oil companies for making record profits while refusing the prices at the pump for the people of America. The President vowed to look to congress to levy tax penalties on oil companies if they don't invest toward lowering the cost of fuel for American citizens.

The President emphasized more on ExxonMobil, which reported an earning of $19.7bn last week in the third quarter alone. He accused the company of using its record profits to provide shareholders with hefty dividends but failed to invest in improving production that would benefit consumers at the pump.

Source: The Guardian
Tuesday, October 18, 2022 - The Minister for Interior of Germany has fired the country's cybersecurity chief after being alleged to have turned a blind eye to a firm linked to Russian security circles.

Reports from security sources confirm that the President of the German Federal Office for Information, Arne Schönbohm, was relieved of his duties immediately on Tuesday. 

Schönbohm, who has been in charge of the agencies since 2016, overseeing the computer and communication security of the government, came under scrutiny after his connections to a Russian company in a previous job were brought to light in a late-night satire show by Jan Böhmermann, who is a German comedian.

Before becoming the Head of the Government cybersecurity agency, Schönbohm had helped found the similarly named Cyber Security Council Germany; a group registered as a voluntary association.

Source: The Guardian
Jeep maker Stellantis NV on Monday announced it has signed a non-binding memorandum of understanding with a supplier for raw materials needed to build electric-vehicle batteries.

The agreement between Stellantis and GME Resources Limited — which owns a nickel and cobalt project in western Australia — is the latest example of automakers moving to shore up supplies of key raw materials deep into the supply chain to meet the capacity for their EV plans.

The deal with GME is for the "future sale of quantities of battery grade nickel and cobalt sulphate products" from the NiWest Nickel-Cobalt Project, according to a news release. That project is expected to produce approximately 90,000 tons per year of battery-grade nickel and cobalt sulphate for electric vehicles. A feasibility study for the project is slated to start this month, according to Stellantis and GME.

"Every day, Stellantis is working to provide our customers clean, safe, affordable, cutting-edge freedom of mobility," Maxime Picat, chief purchasing and supply chain officer for the transatlantic automaker, said in a statement. "Securing the raw material sources and battery supply will strengthen Stellantis' value chain for electric vehicle battery production and equally important, help the company achieve its aggressive decarbonization target."

Stellantis has said it plans to transition 100% of its passenger sales mix in Europe to battery electric vehicles by 2030. And by that time, it expects for half of its passenger car and light-duty truck sales mix in the U.S. to be battery electric. It aims to be carbon neutral by 2038.

In a statement, Paul Kopejtka, managing director of GME, said that a definitive agreement with Stellantis "would be a critical step in being able to progress the NiWest Project through to commercial operations" and said that GME hopes the MOU is "the first step in a long-term partnership."

Across the industry, automakers have been working to secure raw materials for EV batteries in response to government policies and growing consumer demand for all-electric vehicles.

Earlier this year, Stellantis inked deals with Vulcan Energy and Controlled Thermal Resources for supplies of lithium hydroxide for Europe and North America, respectively.

General Motors Co. earlier this year announced new supply agreements that it said would help secure all of the raw materials it needs for EV batteries to meet a 2025 goal of having 1 million units of annual EV capacity in North America. And in July, Ford Motor Co. executives detailed several deals the company reached to shore up raw materials for battery production as they announced that the automaker had secured 100% of the battery capacity it needs to hit annual EV production capacity of 600,000 units by the end of next year.

