Tuesday, January 31, 2023 — After sending tanks, the United States and the United Kingdom have crumbled Ukraine’s hope to get fighters from western Allies. Western Allies have concluded that they will no longer send F-16S and other western fighter jets to Ukraine.

The President of the United States, Joe Biden, replied “no” when asked whether or not he would send F-16s to Ukraine, but said he would remain in contact with Ukraine over their weapons request. A spokesperson at Downing Street also said sending the Jets to Ukraine isn’t practical as they are sophisticated equipment.

Ukraine began requesting the fighter jets manufactured by the United States defense company just after the U.S. and Germany agreed to send their own tanks to Ukraine for the first time. A spokesperson of Ukraine’s Airforce said Ukraine was seeking 200 fighter jets.

Source: The Guardian 
Thursday, February 16, 2023 – 10 days following multiple earthquakes along the border of Turkiye and Syria, emergency services continue to rescue people from under the rubble. So far, the death toll after 10 days stands at 42,000.

Most people blamed poor construction standards for the massive death toll, and some even mentioned that the actual number of fatalities exceeded official figures. More than 100 developers and builders have been arrested in Turkey, but the officials authorized the construction have escaped.

The UN has launched separate appeals for Turkiye and Syria separately, amounting to $1bn and $400m, respectively, as relief funds. In both countries, more than 1 million people have been displaced, with NATO commenting on the Turkish disaster as one of the most devastating natural disasters ever on NATO soil.

Source: The Guardian  
Wednesday, January 25, 2023 – Deadly cold weather was recorded in several Asian countries, especially Japan, China, and the Korean peninsula, with experts saying the trend is the new norm.

The extreme temperatures have resulted in death across the areas affected, with reports that four of those who died in Japan were working to clear the snow that resulted from the cold temperatures. Hundreds of domestic flights in Japan were canceled because heavy snow and high winds made visibility difficult. Japan Airlines and All Nippon Airways canceled a total of 229 flights.

According to the North Korean State Media, cold storms going as low as -22°F (-30°C) swept through the Korean peninsula affecting the Pyongyang province majorly.

China's meteorological service has also predicted significant temperature reductions in several areas of the nation and issued a blue notice for a cold wave on Monday, the lowest level in a four-tier warning system. Mohe, China's northernmost city, temperatures dropped to -63.4°F (-53°C) on Sunday, the lowest temperature ever recorded.

Source: CNN 
Chinese manufacturers and tech companies are playing an increasing role as the U.S. supply chain for electric vehicles and batteries grows to satisfy demand.

Why it matters: More supply chain investments mean more EVs, which advocates say are critical to making transportation sustainable.

But domestic manufacturing proponents and some Republican lawmakers have expressed wariness about Chinese companies seizing too much control of a vital and growing market.
State of play: Chinese companies are expanding their presence in several areas of the U.S. EV space:

Ford on Monday announced it's building a $3.5 billion plant in Michigan that will build batteries using technology from China's Contemporary Amperex Technology Co., Limited (CATL).
Foxconn, which makes the iPhone in China for Apple, is now building electric pickups in Ohio after forming a joint venture last year with Lordstown Motors.
China EV maker BYD is considering building a battery plant in the U.S., Bloomberg reported.
The intrigue: Virginia Gov. Glenn Youngkin, a Republican, last month withdrew his state's bid for Ford’s venture with CATL, describing the planned project as a "Trojan horse" for the Communist Party of China, Axios' Joann Muller writes.

Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, a Democrat, applauded the "generational investment by an American icon [that] will uplift local families, small businesses, and the entire community and help our state continue leading the future of mobility and electrification."
Be smart: For vehicles to qualify for EV tax credits under the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), they need to be assembled with components made in the U.S. — a stiff standard that many vehicles can't currently meet.

Because Ford will own 100% of the new Michigan factory, it hopes to take advantage of lucrative tax credits.
"As IRA implementation continues, scrutiny of Chinese involvement in facilities receiving subsidies will only increase, driven by a mix of sincere and cynical China concerns from both parties," Evercore ISI analyst Tobin Marcus writes.
What we're watching: Whether a Chinese automaker goes beyond manufacturing in the U.S., becoming the first to sell vehicles here.

Chinese automotive executives have been claiming for years that they'll bring their cars to the U.S., but it hasn't happened yet.