Sunday, November 26, 2023 – During a meeting with the Prime Minister of Vietnam, Pham Minh Chinh, the commerce minister of China, Wang Wentao promised to deepen the bilateral trade ties between China and Vietnam. Mr. Wang said though the relations with Vietnam had already achieved fruitful results, it would now include strategic areas like digital economy, green development, and cross-border e-commerce.

Both China and the United States have been trying to get influence among Southeast Asian nations, which includes Vietnam, which stepped up its ties with Washington in September to a comprehensive strategic partnership.

The Vice Foreign Minister of China, Sun Weidong held a talk with the Deputy Foreign Minister of Vietnam, Nguyen Minh Vu concerning bilateral ties, land border, and maritime issues. Though Chinese President Xi Jinping was expected to travel to Hanoi in late October or early November, it was postponed till December.

Source: Reuters
Friday, October 13, 2023 – Following the attack on Israel by Hamas militants, the Gaza Strip has seen a series of bombardments with bombs from Israel in a crisis that has grown to become a full-blown war. The Israeli Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu mentioned in an earlier report that “Gaza will be placed under a total blockade from food, water, fuel and electricity supply”.

As the crisis continues, Gaza is reportedly running out of fuel to power the generators that supply electricity to the only healthcare facilities left, and more than 50,000 pregnant women cannot access health services. The people of Gaza — about 1.1 million of them including women and children — have been instructed to move further south to avoid the Israeli bombardment against Hamas, and the blockade will not stop until Hamas releases the captured Israeli Hostages.

Since the beginning of the crisis over the past few days, 1,300 Israelis have died with Hamas holding about 150 hostages; retaliatory attacks from Israel have led to the death of 1,500 Palestinians, 338,000 people displaced, 19 healthcare facilities grounded 11 health workers killed, and 16 of them mortally wounded.

Source: BBC
Saturday, October 21, 2023 – After almost a week of negotiations between the United States, Israel, Egypt and the United Nations, the Rafah crossing point between Egypt and Gaza has been opened. The opening will allow 20 Egyptian trucks containing medical supplies to cross into the territory.

According to the agreement, only 20 trucks will be permitted to enter on Saturday, and a UN official said trucks from the UN will not be expected to cross until Monday.

The government of Israel said that they want proof that the aid deliveries are not seized or diverted by Hamas before they can authorize any further deliveries. An official of the United Nations said that the verification procedures are still under discussion. The director general of the World Health Organization confirmed that the medical supplies that are being sent to Gaza include trauma and chronic disease medicine.

Source: The Guardian 

China has unveiled plans to restrict exports of graphite — a mineral crucial to the manufacture of batteries for electric vehicles (EVs) — on national security grounds, the Ministry of Commerce and the General Administration of Customs said Friday.

The announcement comes just days after the United States imposed additional limits on the kinds of semiconductors that American companies can sell to Chinese firms.

“At the moment both China and Western countries are engaged in a tit for tat, highlighting how protectionist measures often spread. Newton’s third law that every action causes a reaction applies here, too,” said Stefan Legge, head of tax and trade policy research at the University of St Gallen in Switzerland.

“At the same time, both sides of the dispute also realize how costly it is if geopolitics trumps economics,” he added.

China, which dominates the world’s production and processing of graphite, says export permits will be needed, starting in December, for synthetic graphite material — including high-purity, high-strength and high-density versions — as well as for natural flake graphite.

The Institute for Energy Research, a Washington, DC-based research organization, says carmakers are trying to lock in supplies of graphite from sources outside of China, as demand for EV batteries outpaces other uses for the material.

Global sales of EVs, including purely battery-powered vehicles and hybrids, are soaring, according to the International Energy Agency.

Sales exceeded 10 million units last year, up 55% from 2021, and are expected to rise to nearly 14 million vehicles this year, it projected.

According to the US Geological Survey, the market for graphite used in batteries has grown 250% globally since 2018. China was the world’s leading graphite producer last year, accounting for an estimated 65% of global production, it said.

Besides EVs, graphite is commonly used in the semiconductor, aerospace, chemical and steel industries.

Gallium, germanium restrictions
The export curbs were announced as China faces pressure from multiple governments over its commercial and trade practices. For more than a year, it has been embroiled in a tech war with the United States and its allies in Europe and Asia over access to advanced chips and chipmaking equipment.

In July, Beijing imposed export restrictions on gallium and germanium, two minerals essential for making semiconductors. One month later, its overseas shipments of the materials fell to zero.

Ivan Lam, a senior analyst at Counterpoint Research, said China had previously imposed temporary export controls on graphite, with little industry impact, adding that the new rules were not a “complete ban.” Still, he predicts prices will go up.

“We believe that the average price of graphite will continue to rise in the future due to supply and demand imbalances, including Russia, which was one of the major graphite suppliers before the Russia-Ukraine war,” he said.

China has a massive hold on the worldwide supply chain of critical minerals needed to make EV batteries. It refines 60% of the world’s lithium and 80% of the cobalt, according to the US Department of Energy.

