Thursday, July 20, 2023 – More than 110 people were injured after the north-eastern Italian region of Veneto was hit by severe weather, including giant hailstones. These events prompted the governor, Luca Zaia, to announce a regional emergency for the affected areas.

Although the heatwave peak passed on Wednesday, Italy remained in the grip of its third heatwave of the summer. According to data, temperatures in Sicily and Sardinia were anticipated to reach around 48 degrees Celsius.

The public protection authority in Rome had set up 28 "heat help points" across the city to avoid citizens and tourists from becoming ill due to the severe temperatures. Some hospitals reported a 20%-25% rise in people appearing at emergency rooms with dehydration or other heat-related disorders.

Farm laborers in Marsica, Abruzzo, worked from 4 a.m. to 11 a.m. to avoid the warmest hours, while factory workers around the country threatened to go on strike due to the high heat.

Source: The Guardian
Saturday, July 15, 2023 – South Korean President Yoon Suk-Yeol has promised to increase his country's humanitarian and non-lethal military assistance to Ukraine. This decision comes after a summit with the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskiy. Being the world’s ninth-largest arms exporter, South Korea has a longstanding policy not to supply lethal weapons to an active conflict zone.

President Yoon and his wife, Kim Keon-Hee, traveled to Ukraine after visiting Lithuania for a NATO summit. It is the first visit Yoon has made to Ukraine since Russia invaded the country almost 17 months ago. The humanitarian aid would also be increased to $150m in 2023.

During a joint briefing, President Zelenskiy appreciated the South Korean President's encouraging words and firm support. He also praised the transfer of vehicles and demining equipment to Ukraine.

Source: The Guardian 
Friday, September 8, 2023 – The amount of rain that fell in Hong Kong in a single hour on Thursday night was 158.1 mm, the most since records began being kept in 1884. This record-breaking rainfall led to widespread flooding and disrupted train and road traffic. The city's Mass Transit Railway said that service on one of its lines would be temporarily halted after a station in the Wong Tai Sin neighborhood was flooded, with a few other stations also affected.

Only a few days after the city narrowly avoided significant damage from a super typhoon, the city experienced record rain in the hour leading up to midnight on Thursday. No death has been recorded yet.

Heavy rain was also reported in Shenzhen, a neighboring Chinese tech powerhouse. According to Hong Kong officials, the city has prepared to dump water from its reservoirs, which might result in flooding in sections of northern Hong Kong.

Source: The Guardian
The chip shortage has ailed the auto industry since early in COVID, but a bigger issue is surfacing.
Automakers are starting to see the impacts of the electric vehicle battery crunch.
EV battery constraints and more are affecting the bottom lines of companies like Ford.

It's official: The battery crunch is the new chip shortage.

The chip shortage is still impacting vehicle supply, experts say, but automakers are now having to reckon with the battery supply chains as an even bigger headwind. Challenges surrounding electric vehicle production and the battery supply chain are finally materializing for legacy automakers and impacting their bottom lines.

Ford, GM, and Porsche pointed to delays, constraints, and expenses related to EVs and their batteries in recent financial results. These issues are not only causing them to fall short of their ambitious electrification targets but also impacting their balance sheets. 

Ford CEO Jim Farley said during the company's last earnings call that with regard to EVs, "pricing pressure has dramatically increased in the past 60 days." Much of that stems from an EV price war brought on by Tesla and Elon Musk. One of the biggest reasons it's more difficult for a company like Ford to lower its EVs prices is because it hasn't yet hit production scale in the same way Tesla has, especially when it comes to batteries, which would bring down overall costs. 

Ford expects to lose $4.5 billion on EVs this year.

Meanwhile, GM CEO Mary Barra told investors that while the company is targeting building 100,000 EVs in the second half of 2023, one of its equipment suppliers is experiencing delivery issues that is constraining GM's battery module assembly.

"We have experienced unexpected delays in the ramp," Barra said — an indicator that bottlenecks are to come from the battery side of the business. Battery shortages were blamed for GM halting production at a Canadian manufacturing plant earlier this month, according to Electrek.   

And at Porsche, hitting this year's target will require a better battery situation, executives said.
"There is no week where we have no supply chain issue," CEO Oliver Blume told media, per a Reuters report. 

Battery supply issues have long been looming, but as auto companies across the globe race to snatch up EV market share and spend billions to electrify, the challenges have manifested quickly. Before, it wasn't as obvious just exactly where hold-ups would come into play. 

Now, combined with sourcing requirements like those in the Inflation Reduction Act, and a mash dash for raw materials, processing power, and manufacturing capability has automakers scrambling. 

Competition is fierce, and while auto companies are making agreements and signing onto partnerships to reduce the blow from the supply chain, the road to EVs is likely to remain rocky.
