Friday, December 1, 2023 – Israel launched an attack at targets across Gaza following the end of a seven-day ceasefire on Friday, after the negotiation of the release of more hostages failed overnight. More than 100 Palestinians were killed in the recent attack from Israel.

According to Israel’s military, they confirmed that by lunchtime, they had already attacked 200 targets from land, sea, and air across the north and south of the strip, which include a south city that Israel had ordered civilians to evacuate from, Khan Younis.

Israel confirmed that the reason the truce broke and could not be renewed was because Hamas had failed to release the remaining female hostages in Gaza. According to an Israeli Government spokesperson, Eylon Levy, he said that “Having chosen to hold on to Israeli women, Hamas will now take the mother of all thumping.”

Source: The Guardian 
Friday, December 8, 2023 – President of Russia, Vladimir Putin has confirmed that he would stand again for a fifth term in power. He announced an award ceremony for participants of the full-scale war he launched against Ukraine in 2022. His announcement comes a day after election officials in Russia confirmed that the presidential election will be held on 15-17 March 2024.

Mr. Putin ruled the country from 2000 – 2008 and returned to power in 2012. This means he has been in power in Russia longer than any ruler since Josef Stalin. In 2020, the Russian constitution was amended, which increased the presidential term from four to six years. This gives Mr. Putin a clean slate to run again next year by canceling out his previous term.

Power was handed over to Mr. Putin at the very end of 1999 by his ailing predecessor, Boris Yeltsin.

Source: BBC 
Monday, December 25, 2023 – A Russian opposition leader, Alexei Navalny, who was jailed has been found in a remote prison colony above the Arctic Circle after he went missing for over three weeks. His spokesperson confirmed that they tracked Navalny down to the IK-3 penal colony in Kharp, which is about 1,200 miles northeast of Moscow.

Navalny was sentenced to close to three decades in jail after he started a nationwide political opposition against President Vladimir Putin. He then disappeared from a prison in the Vladimir region close to Moscow on December 6. Three lawyers who were representing Navalny were previously detained by Russian authorities so that they could isolate him completely.

Navalny was previously poisoned in Russia in 2020, after which he was evacuated to Germany for treatment. He returned to Russia in 2021, after which he was arrested and sentenced to 30 decades in prison on charges of fraud.

Source: The Guardian 
•	该谅解备忘录概述了双方将联合开发先进的技术路线图，以及共同拓展未来电池价值链的机遇 

•	Stellantis集团旨在利用磷酸铁锂 (LFP) 电池推动其在欧洲市场的电动汽车生产，以支持Stellantis“Dare Forward 2030”战略规划中宏伟的电动化目标

•      Stellantis集团和宁德时代正探讨双方以对等模式成立一家合资企业的可能性

Stellantis集团和宁德时代新能源科技股份有限公司（下称“宁德时代”）今日宣布双方签署谅解备忘录，该备忘录约定：宁德时代将在欧洲当地向Stellantis集团供应磷酸铁锂（LFP）的电芯和模组，助力Stellantis在欧洲市场的电动汽车生产。为进一步支持Stellantis集团宏伟的电动化战略和目标，双方正探讨以对等模式成立一家合资企业的可能性。 


本谅解备忘录概述了宁德时代和Stellantis集团将在两个战略领域开展长期合作：制定大胆的技术路线图以支持Stellantis尖端纯电动汽车的发展；积极探索新的合作机会以进一步提升电池价值链。 

Stellantis集团全球CEO唐唯实 (Carlos Tavares) 表示：“与宁德时代就磷酸铁锂电池达成的谅解备忘录，是Stellantis保护欧洲中产阶级出行自由的长期战略的另一个组成部分。作为电池领域的行业领导者，宁德时代将与Stellantis旗下的众多标志性汽车品牌一起，为客户带来创新且易于使用和推广的电池技术，同时将帮助Stellantis集团实现其‘到2038年，达到净零碳排放’的目标。” 

宁德时代董事长兼总经理曾毓群表示：“我们非常高兴能将双方的合作伙伴关系提升到一个新的层次。借助Stellantis悠久的整车制造经验以及宁德时代先进的电池技术，我相信此次合作将是双方实现碳中和目标的决定性的一步。宁德时代将继续致力于为合作伙伴提供更具竞争力和更具可持续性发展的解决方案，为全球能源转型做出卓越贡献。” 

磷酸铁锂电池技术具有长寿命和高热稳定性的特点，有助于Stellantis为客户提供高品质、经久耐用且价格实惠的电动汽车，其范围涵盖B级到C级区间的轿车、跨界车和SUV。 

作为Stellantis集团“Dare Forward 2030”战略规划的一部分，集团的电动化目标为：到2030年，Stellantis在欧洲售出的所有乘用车均为纯电动汽车，在美国售出的乘用车及轻型卡车中有50%为纯电动汽车。与此同时，Stellantis计划到2038年成为一家净零碳排放企业，集团正创建一系列的合作伙伴关系，以确保在其电动化未来的实施过程中关键原材料的稳定和低碳供应。