Monday, March 20, 2023 — The President of China, Xi Jinping, met with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Kremlin on Monday. This is the first visit of the Chinese leader to Russia since the beginning of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine last year.

In the early hours of their meeting, both countries talked about the war in Ukraine, and it is expected to be the key point of discussion throughout Xi’s visit. Russian state news agency confirmed that the meeting between the two presidents lasted up to 4 and a half hours, with a more formal meeting expected to follow on Tuesday.

Antony Blinken, a top United States diplomat, said President Xi’s trip to Russia days after the ICC issued an arrest warrant for President Putin suggests that China does not feel any responsibility to hold Kremlin responsible for the war crime committed in Ukraine.

Source: CNN 
Sunday, February 19, 2023 — Joint Chiefs of South Korea confirm that North Korea has fired a ballistic missile toward the sea of its east coast, after Pyongyang warned of a strong response to the U.S.-South Korea military drills coming up. Japan’s coastguard confirms that North Korea launched what could be described as a ballistic missile.

North Korea has also confirmed that it launched a Hwasong-15 billion intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) just a day before a sudden launching drill for a mobile counterattack against hostile forces. South Korea Military said it detected the missile at 5:22 p.m.

South Korean defense ministry said the nuclear drills between the U.S. and South Korea, referred to as the deterrence strategy committee tabletop exercise, are scheduled for Wednesday at the Pentagon, which will involve senior defense policymakers from both parties.

Source: The Guardian 
Friday, February 24, 2023 — China has urged the G20 nations to conduct a fair, objective, and in-depth analysis of the possible causes of the global debt issues and to tackle the problem comprehensively and effectively. Minister for finance in China, Liu Kun, joined a video meeting of the bloc’s finance ministers and central bank chiefs in Bengaluru and India.

According to the statement released by the Chinese finance ministry, Liu said that to resolve debt issues, international financial institutions and commercial creditors should go along with the principle of joint actions.

Officials from the IMF, the World Bank, and G7 nations will convene on Saturday for the first face-to-face discussions of the new IMF Global Sovereign Debt Roundtable.

Officials from Zambia and Ghana await assurance from China regarding debt-restructuring support.

Source: Reuters 
The Department of Energy has agreed to loan a Nevada startup $2 billion to support its production of critical battery materials, a staggering sum that illustrates the Biden administration’s determination to domesticate the electric vehicle supply chain.

Redwood Materials will use the money for construction of the first factory in the nation to produce anode copper foil and cathode active materials, two essential components in EV batteries. The company, founded by former Tesla executive JB Straubel, says it will manufacture enough of them to support the production of 1 million electric vehicles per year by 2025. According to the Department of Energy, that would reduce the country’s gasoline consumption by more than 395 million gallons annually and cut carbon dioxide emissions by more than 3.5 million tons. It also would ease automakers’ reliance on battery components made overseas.

“It accomplishes the goals of less reliance on critical minerals from Asia, brings manufacturing and the supply chain to the US, and produces components for electric vehicles, which ultimately reduces greenhouse gas emissions,” Bob Marcum, chief operating officer of the DOE Loan Programs Office, told Grist on Friday. “It’s a very important project and something that we’re very excited about.”

The loan, which the Energy Department agreed to in a conditional commitment announced Thursday, will come from the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program, which supports manufacturing projects that improve vehicle fuel efficiency. 

The Biden administration wants electric vehicles to comprise half of all new car sales 2030. The essential components of electric vehicle batteries are produced almost exclusively in Asia. “We have some catching up to do,” Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm said at an event at Redwood Materials’ Nevada facility on Thursday. “China has dominated every step of the supply chain.” That poses supply chain security risks, drives up the cost of batteries, and creates greenhouse gas emissions in transporting materials around the world.

“Once we realized how systemically important this technology had become to our entire transportation system and our grid, all eyes started sharpening on how to build independence,” said Nathan Iyer, senior associate at the clean energy nonprofit RMI. 

The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, CHIPS & Science Act, and Inflation Reduction Act direct more than $135 billion to the country’s electric vehicle transition, including toward critical minerals sourcing and processing as well as battery manufacturing. 

“They targeted essentially every single part of the manufacturing process,” said Iyer. “What the US is doing is unique, strategic and aggressive.” 

Redwood Materials was founded in 2017 by JB Straubel, the co-founder and former CTO of Tesla. While working on Tesla’s massive Nevada Gigafactory, he realized the U.S. would soon confront a dire challenge sourcing the supplies needed to support the EV transition. “Even eight years ago, it was clear this would be a really big bottleneck for the entire industry as it scaled,” he said at the event on Thursday. 

Redwood Materials will produce the two most important components of an electric vehicle battery: the anode, which contributes to the battery’s charging performance, and the cathode, which contains the battery’s critical metals. Together, they make up almost 80 percent of a battery’s cost. Domesticating their production not only provides a more secure supply stream for the materials, it lowers the cost of battery production, which can make electric vehicles more affordable for consumers.

Last month, Redwood Materials began producing anode copper foil at its Nevada facility, the first time the component has been commercially produced in the U.S. It expects to begin testing on its cathode products later this year. 

Once complete, the Nevada facility will employ about 1,600 full-time workers.

The company is bringing circularity to the battery supply chain. The metals in EV batteries are almost infinitely recyclable, and Redwood Materials has begun recycling them and collecting scrap from factories, lithium-ion batteries from e-bikes, consumer electronics and other sources for use in its anode and cathode components.

While there are not yet enough electric vehicle batteries in circulation to use materials exclusively from recycled sources, the infrastructure Redwood Materials is creating now could eventually support almost completely closed-loop battery manufacturing.

“They’re a little ahead of the recycled material inputs,” said Iyer, “but if they’re successful this will be the cornerstone of the circular economy.”

Eighty battery manufacturing or supply chain companies have announced that they are either reshoring or opening in the United States in the last two years, according to Secretary Granholm. “This is happening because there is now an industrial strategy to make this stuff in America,” she said. “China might be starting to worry.” 