Thursday, October 12, 2023 – The University of New South Wales and the Bureau of Meteorology examined patterns between 1979 and 2021 and discovered that hail-prone circumstances have increased significantly over Australia's south-east and south-west. The research gives a clear picture of how climate continues to change in Australia.

Updrafts, moisture in the air, and cold enough temperatures up in the atmosphere combine to generate hailstones. Another critical factor is Wind shear which is defined as variations in horizontal wind direction or speed at various heights in the atmosphere.

The economic significance of these studies is enormous. According to the Insurance Council of Australia, the expenses of the 1999 Sydney hailstorm would equal an estimated $8.85 billion in insured damages if it occurred in 2023, far outweighing the costs of the severe 2022 floods in south-east Queensland and New South Wales.

Source: The Guardian
Wednesday, November 1, 2023 – Officials confirm that foreign nationals and injured Palestinians have been granted access to crossing from Gaza into Egypt. On Wednesday, 81 injured Palestinians that were injured severely were expected to enter Egypt, out of which dozens have already arrived and undergoing treatment in several hospitals across Egypt.

An official of Egypt confirmed that more than 360 foreign nationals have also left Gaza through the Rafah border crossing. He said dozens of them are making their way down to Cairo, where they will catch a plane to their respective countries.

The existence is due to a deal that was brokered by Qatar between Israel, Hamas, and Egypt, in coordination with the United States. The deal allows for the release of foreign nationals and critically injured civilians from Gaza. The agreement is separate from hostage negotiations.

Source: CNN 
Sunday, October 8, 2023 – Israel has officially declared war on Hamas, which sets the stage for a major military operation in Gaza. Tanks and personnel carriers were sighted on the move along the Israel-Gaza border on Sunday, following a surprise attack from an Islamist militant group, Hamas, which has killed over 700 Israelis. 

Hamas has confirmed that they are holding more than 100 Israeli hostages, including high-ranking officers, as they continue to fire rockets into Israel throughout Sunday. Another armed group in Palestine, known as the Islamist Jihad, said that they were holding at least 30 hostages in Gaza.

The Prime Minister of Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu promised that his country would retaliate, and said that they were ready for a long and difficult war. More than 400 Palestinians have been killed in Gaza, due to Israel’s response with airstrike.

Source: CNN
TOKYO, Oct 12 (Reuters) - Japanese automaker Honda Motor (7267.T), opens new tab and trading house Mitsubishi Corp (8058.T), opens new tab have signed a pact to explore new businesses using electric vehicle (EV) batteries, the companies said on Thursday.
The move comes as car makers worldwide embrace battery-driven electric vehicles, but struggle with questions such as tackling the environmental impact after the batteries run out.
"Honda will not only sell EVs, but take a proactive approach to energy management, where EV batteries will be utilised as an energy source," its chief executive, Toshihiro Mibe, said in a statement.
Under their memorandum of understanding, the companies look to set up a business in monitoring usage of Honda's mini-EV model battery and transferring the auto battery to stationary energy storage, they said.
Honda will begin sales of the EV model in Japan in 2024.
They will also seek to co-operate in "smart charging" that automatically adjusts the timing of EV charge for efficiency and the "Vehicle to Grid" system, a technology that supplies electricity stored in EVs to the grid.
The deal would eventually pay off in lower electricity bills for customers and better use of battery material, the companies said.
