Tuesday, May 30, 2023 – A blanket diplomatic immunity has been issued by South Africa to all leaders who will attend an August summit. This means that the President of Russia, Vladimir Putin, might be able to make a trip to Johannesburg without the fear of the country acting on an international criminal court arrest warrant for him.

In August, South Africa will host a summit of Brics groups: Brazil, China, India, Russia, and South Africa. A planning meeting of foreign ministers is expected to take place on Thursday, which will last two days.

On Tuesday, the Department of Foreign Affairs backed the immunity, saying it is a standard conferment of immunities for all international conferences and summits held in South Africa. The department also added that “the immunities are for conferences and not for specific individuals.

Source: The Guardian 
Friday, May 19, 2023 – The President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, is set to travel to Japan for the Group of Seven (G7) summit in person. This is seen as a display of confidence and Western solidarity from Ukraine’s president as he attempts to maintain important alliances with other nations.

The trip will be the first Ukrainian President’s trip to Asia since the invasion of Ukraine last year in February. The war in Ukraine is already at the top of the agenda of the three-day G7 summit, where leaders from the world’s wealthiest democracies are expected to support Ukraine.

Oleksii Danilov, Secretary of the National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine, said the physical presence of Ukraine’s president is very crucial to defend the country’s interests and also providing clear proposals and clear arguments on the events that are happening in the country.

Source: CNN 
Monday, June 26, 2023 – At least nine people were reportedly killed after Russian air strikes on rebel-held Idlib province, Syria. The United Nations expressed its concerns about the hostilities in the province.

Bombs dropped from warplanes killed nine people next to a market outside Jisr al-Shughour. Two other people were also killed in an air strike near Idlib city. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group has termed the attack the deadliest Russian attack this year.

Russia's military did not comment on the situation immediately. Their air campaign supporting the Syrian government has been crucial in turning the tide of the civil war that has been going on for 12 years. The strikes were said to be a retaliation for attacks that had killed civilians in government-held Hama and Latakia provinces.

Source: BBC
General Motors and South Korean chemical company POSCO Future M announced June 2 that they would be launching the second phase of their Ultium Cathode Active Material (CAM) joint venture by investing over $1 billion in the North American market to increase its production capacity of CAM, a key material used to manufacture lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles. Simultaneously, the investment will also focus on integrating precursor materials production (pCAM) — a specifically engineered combination of processed raw materials that are needed to produce CAM — into the Ultium CAM joint venture.

A site for the joint venture CAM and pCAM complex will be announced at a later date.

GM said that it plans on installing 1 million units of annual EV capacity in North America in 2025 with support from four U.S. battery cell joint venture plants that will initially offer 160 GWh of capacity. Meanwhile, the joint Ultium CAM project is expected to support the production of roughly 360,000 Chevrolet, Cadillac, GMC, Buick and BrightDrop vehicles each year in North America between 2025 and 2030.

"Increasing CAM production capacity and adding pCAM to our joint venture is another significant step in building a more secure and sustainable North America-focused supply chain to support GM's fast-growing EV production needs," said Doug Parks, GM’s executive vice president of Global Product Development, Purchasing and Supply Chain. "We started by establishing battery cell production in the U.S. From there, we have been working through the entire battery supply chain, all the way to raw material recovery. We're building higher levels of vertical integration, driving expanded investment and helping create jobs across North America."

GM has been working hard to improve the battery manufacturing capabilities of the North American market. In April 2023, the automaker announced it was teaming up with Samsung SDI to launch a new battery cell manufacturing plant in the United States by 2026 according to Reuters.