Friday, October 13, 2023 – Following the attack on Israel by Hamas militants, the Gaza Strip has seen a series of bombardments with bombs from Israel in a crisis that has grown to become a full-blown war. The Israeli Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu mentioned in an earlier report that “Gaza will be placed under a total blockade from food, water, fuel and electricity supply”.

As the crisis continues, Gaza is reportedly running out of fuel to power the generators that supply electricity to the only healthcare facilities left, and more than 50,000 pregnant women cannot access health services. The people of Gaza — about 1.1 million of them including women and children — have been instructed to move further south to avoid the Israeli bombardment against Hamas, and the blockade will not stop until Hamas releases the captured Israeli Hostages.

Since the beginning of the crisis over the past few days, 1,300 Israelis have died with Hamas holding about 150 hostages; retaliatory attacks from Israel have led to the death of 1,500 Palestinians, 338,000 people displaced, 19 healthcare facilities grounded 11 health workers killed, and 16 of them mortally wounded.

Source: BBC
Sunday, October 8, 2023 – Israel has officially declared war on Hamas, which sets the stage for a major military operation in Gaza. Tanks and personnel carriers were sighted on the move along the Israel-Gaza border on Sunday, following a surprise attack from an Islamist militant group, Hamas, which has killed over 700 Israelis. 

Hamas has confirmed that they are holding more than 100 Israeli hostages, including high-ranking officers, as they continue to fire rockets into Israel throughout Sunday. Another armed group in Palestine, known as the Islamist Jihad, said that they were holding at least 30 hostages in Gaza.

The Prime Minister of Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu promised that his country would retaliate, and said that they were ready for a long and difficult war. More than 400 Palestinians have been killed in Gaza, due to Israel’s response with airstrike.

Source: CNN
Wednesday, October 4, 2023 – The military of the United States confirmed that it has sent over 1 million rounds of ammunition seized from the Iranians last year to Ukraine. The U.S. Central Command, which is responsible for military operations in the Middle East confirmed that close to 1.1 million 7.62 mm rounds were sent to Ukraine.

For some years, the United States naval forces have been intercepting fishing vessels and seizing weapons that they believe are from Iran, that are bound for Iran-backed fighters in Yemen.

However, it is likely that the ammunition would not make any major difference on the battlefield for Ukraine, given that it is long-range weapons and air defense systems that are on the top of Ukraine’s wish list. Congress did not include any new money for Ukraine in the stopgap U.S. spending bill that was passed just this weekend.

Source: Reuters
SHANGHAI, Oct 27 (Reuters) - Beijing's move to restrict graphite exports will have a disproportionate impact on foreign makers of electric vehicle battery components who have not yet shifted to using as much synthetic material as Chinese counterparts, industry insiders and experts said.
China's latest limit on critical mineral exports, which Beijing said is not targeted at a specific sector, has fuelled uncertainty in the global EV supply chain since it was announced last Friday.
Some Chinese manufacturers, including those with operations overseas, said they expect limited impact from the rules as most EV batteries they make use a grade of synthetic material that is unaffected by the curbs.
China dominates the global EV battery supply chain including production of graphite - the single largest component. Graphite companies in the country process both the natural material mined domestically and overseas, as well as synthetic forms.
Japan, South Korea and the United States are top buyers of both natural and synthetic Chinese graphite, and analysts warned the new measures could slow or reduce graphite supplies needed by companies there to produce anodes - the negative electrodes of EV batteries.
Under the new rules, China will require export permits starting Dec. 1 for high-end synthetic graphite, as well as key forms of natural graphite.
Several executives in China and globally at companies that use graphite said they were still seeking further clarity on the new measures.
An employee at Qingdao Haida, a major Chinese graphite processor, who declined to be named as they was not authorised to speak on behalf of the company, told Reuters that the company's products include spherical graphite, which is used in lithium ion battery anodes and is covered by the new rules and is exported to South Korea and Japan.
"We haven't got any instructions from MOFCOM (China's Ministry of Commerce) on how to apply for export permits but it will definitely make the exporting process more inconvenient," the person said.
Haida did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
China's recent move to require export permits for gallium and germanium products has choked off international shipments of the chipmaking metals.
The commerce ministry did not respond to further queries from Reuters. A source familiar with the Chinese government's thinking noted that graphite was also used in military equipment.
CHINA'S SYNTHETIC PUSH
But Chinese companies, which have been building overseas plants, said the restrictions will have little effect on their operations abroad. The Chinese firms use synthetic graphite, but not the high grade form covered under the new measures, with a density of 1.73 grams per cubic centimetre and above.
China produces large quantities of synthetic graphite, which enables lower battery charge times.
While adoption among foreign manufacturers is growing, their shift from natural to synthetic graphite has been slower, in part because it is more polluting to produce petroleum-based synthetic graphite and natural graphite anodes also tend to be cheaper, which makes them vulnerable to the Chinese curbs.
Volkswagen-backed Chinese firm Gotion High Tech (002074.SZ), opens new tab, which produces batteries in Germany and plans a U.S. plant, said graphite used in its batteries has a density lower than 1.7 grams per cubic centimetre, which would make it unaffected by the restrictions.
Similarly, BTR New Material Technology (835185.BJE), opens new tab, the world's largest anode producer, told Shanghai government-run media outlet The Paper that the rule's impact on it would be limited, as its products have a density of between 1.5 and 1.7 gram per cubic centimetre for EV batteries.
Ningbo Shanshan (600884.SS), opens new tab, another leading Chinese anode maker, told The Paper that the restrictions would have no impact on its exports of artificial graphite products.
BTR and Shanshan, which have announced plans to build factories in Indonesia and Finland, respectively, did not immediately respond to requests for comment from Reuters.
NATURAL GRAPHITE HIT
Global companies using natural graphite include Hitachi Chemical, part of Japan's Resonac Holdings Corp (4004.T), opens new tab, South Korea's POSCO Future M (003670.KS), opens new tab and Japan's Mitsubishi Chemical, which produces natural graphite at two plants in China, according to research firm CRU Group.
A Resonac spokesperson said it did not see any impact for now and was watching the situation. He declined to comment on details of graphite procurement, but said there were various routes, depending on individual products.
Mitsubishi Chemical did not respond to a request for comment, and POSCO declined to comment.
Australia-based Tesla supplier Syrah Resources, which mines graphite in Mozambique and is building a plant to produce anodes in the U.S. state of Louisiana, said on Thursday it expects buyers outside of China to step up purchases of natural graphite ahead of the stricter controls taking effect.
India's Epsilon Advanced Materials (EAM) said this week it plans to open a $650 million plant to make battery materials and components including synthetic graphite in the U.S. state of North Carolina, and is in talks with suppliers about sourcing raw materials including natural graphite.
"We believe that limiting the amount of graphite exported from China - and likely the price increase for graphite that it will create - exacerbates the challenges (and) exemplifies the need to develop synthetic graphite for the U.S. locally," EAM CEO Sunit Kapur told Reuters.
