Wednesday, November 1, 2023 – Officials confirm that foreign nationals and injured Palestinians have been granted access to crossing from Gaza into Egypt. On Wednesday, 81 injured Palestinians that were injured severely were expected to enter Egypt, out of which dozens have already arrived and undergoing treatment in several hospitals across Egypt.

An official of Egypt confirmed that more than 360 foreign nationals have also left Gaza through the Rafah border crossing. He said dozens of them are making their way down to Cairo, where they will catch a plane to their respective countries.

The existence is due to a deal that was brokered by Qatar between Israel, Hamas, and Egypt, in coordination with the United States. The deal allows for the release of foreign nationals and critically injured civilians from Gaza. The agreement is separate from hostage negotiations.

Source: CNN 
Wednesday, October 4, 2023 – The military of the United States confirmed that it has sent over 1 million rounds of ammunition seized from the Iranians last year to Ukraine. The U.S. Central Command, which is responsible for military operations in the Middle East confirmed that close to 1.1 million 7.62 mm rounds were sent to Ukraine.

For some years, the United States naval forces have been intercepting fishing vessels and seizing weapons that they believe are from Iran, that are bound for Iran-backed fighters in Yemen.

However, it is likely that the ammunition would not make any major difference on the battlefield for Ukraine, given that it is long-range weapons and air defense systems that are on the top of Ukraine’s wish list. Congress did not include any new money for Ukraine in the stopgap U.S. spending bill that was passed just this weekend.

Source: Reuters
Monday, December 25, 2023 – A Russian opposition leader, Alexei Navalny, who was jailed has been found in a remote prison colony above the Arctic Circle after he went missing for over three weeks. His spokesperson confirmed that they tracked Navalny down to the IK-3 penal colony in Kharp, which is about 1,200 miles northeast of Moscow.

Navalny was sentenced to close to three decades in jail after he started a nationwide political opposition against President Vladimir Putin. He then disappeared from a prison in the Vladimir region close to Moscow on December 6. Three lawyers who were representing Navalny were previously detained by Russian authorities so that they could isolate him completely.

Navalny was previously poisoned in Russia in 2020, after which he was evacuated to Germany for treatment. He returned to Russia in 2021, after which he was arrested and sentenced to 30 decades in prison on charges of fraud.

Source: The Guardian 
TOKYO, Oct 12 (Reuters) - Japanese automaker Honda Motor (7267.T), opens new tab and trading house Mitsubishi Corp (8058.T), opens new tab have signed a pact to explore new businesses using electric vehicle (EV) batteries, the companies said on Thursday.
The move comes as car makers worldwide embrace battery-driven electric vehicles, but struggle with questions such as tackling the environmental impact after the batteries run out.
"Honda will not only sell EVs, but take a proactive approach to energy management, where EV batteries will be utilised as an energy source," its chief executive, Toshihiro Mibe, said in a statement.
Under their memorandum of understanding, the companies look to set up a business in monitoring usage of Honda's mini-EV model battery and transferring the auto battery to stationary energy storage, they said.
Honda will begin sales of the EV model in Japan in 2024.
They will also seek to co-operate in "smart charging" that automatically adjusts the timing of EV charge for efficiency and the "Vehicle to Grid" system, a technology that supplies electricity stored in EVs to the grid.
The deal would eventually pay off in lower electricity bills for customers and better use of battery material, the companies said.
