Wednesday, December 27, 2023 – Eight North Korean citizens have been sanctioned by South Korea because they are linked to nuclear and missile development through arms trade, cyberattacks other illicit activities. The sanctions came days after an intercontinental ballistic missile was fired by North Korea. This action was strongly condemned by South Korea and the United States because it violates the resolution of the Security Council of the United Nations.

Part of the people that were blacklisted include Ri Chang Ho, head of the Reconnaissance General Bureau which is involved in overseas hacking operations, and Yun Chol who assisted in supplying nuclear materials while working with the North Korean Embassy in China.

Since October 2022, a total of 83 individuals and 53 entities related to North Korea’s weapons program have been blacklisted by South Korea.

Source: Reuters
Thursday, December 21, 2023 – For weeks, Iceland has been bracing for volcanic activity. Since late October, the region surrounding Reykjavik has seen a spike in earthquake activity. On Monday, a volcanic eruption broke out on the Reykjanes peninsula of south-west Iceland, after weeks of threatened earthquake activity.

By Tuesday evening and Wednesday morning, the fumes had reached Reykjavik. Last month, some 4,000 people were evacuated from Grindavik, a fishing village threatened by the lava flow.

Volcanologist Dr Evgenia Ilyinskaya in her expert opinion said, there would not be the same level of disruption as the similar eruption from 2010, as these volcanoes in south-west Iceland were "physically not able to generate the same ash clouds"; nevertheless, the local people had been both fearful and expectant of the volcano to erupt.

Images and videos circulated on social media demonstrate lava erupting from the volcano only an hour after an earthquake swarm was discovered, but the Icelandic foreign minister assured that the event would not disrupt flight plans and activities within the country.

Source: BBC 
Saturday, December 2, 2023 – The President of Russia, Vladimir Putin has ordered the military of the country to increase the number of troops by 170,000, as the war between Russia and Ukraine enters its 22nd month. With the increase, the overall number of Russian military personnel will amount to more than 2.2 million, including 1.32 million troops.

According to the country’s defense ministry, it said the expansion was due to “growing threats to the country,” which includes the war with Ukraine and the continuing expansion of NATO. The ministry also said that the increment would be implemented in stages through a recruitment drive.

The latest order from Putin comes as Russia’s war with Ukraine is about to enter its second winter, and it is also the second time since the start of the war that such an order was given.

Source: CNN 
TOKYO, Oct 12 (Reuters) - Japanese automaker Honda Motor (7267.T), opens new tab and trading house Mitsubishi Corp (8058.T), opens new tab have signed a pact to explore new businesses using electric vehicle (EV) batteries, the companies said on Thursday.
The move comes as car makers worldwide embrace battery-driven electric vehicles, but struggle with questions such as tackling the environmental impact after the batteries run out.
"Honda will not only sell EVs, but take a proactive approach to energy management, where EV batteries will be utilised as an energy source," its chief executive, Toshihiro Mibe, said in a statement.
Under their memorandum of understanding, the companies look to set up a business in monitoring usage of Honda's mini-EV model battery and transferring the auto battery to stationary energy storage, they said.
Honda will begin sales of the EV model in Japan in 2024.
They will also seek to co-operate in "smart charging" that automatically adjusts the timing of EV charge for efficiency and the "Vehicle to Grid" system, a technology that supplies electricity stored in EVs to the grid.
The deal would eventually pay off in lower electricity bills for customers and better use of battery material, the companies said.
