Thursday, November 9, 2023 – Fires have historically been a prevalent occurrence in the forests of Canada. However, specialists assert that this year's wildfire served as a dire portent of the kind of circumstances that will be engendered by the climate crisis. 

The climate crisis is contributing to the escalation of wildfires in intensity and size through altered precipitation patterns and elevated temperatures. A remarkable 45.7 million acres, or roughly twice the size of Portugal, were consumed by wildfires, nearly tripling the previous annual record.

The boreal forests of Canada, a vital repository of carbon and a haven for species including moose, bears, and songbirds, were the primary target of the fires. Due to the extreme intensity of some of these fires, it is uncertain whether the boreal forest's predominate fir and spruce trees will return to their former positions.

The fires' effects extended well beyond the borders of Canada, resulting in smoke columns that cast a dystopian orange hue over New York City in June and hazy conditions as recently as last month in Florida.

Source: The Guardian
Thursday, October 5, 2023 – According to the EU climate service, September saw the highest global temperatures ever measuring 1.75C, far surpassing the previous record. The temperature this month was 0.5C hotter than the previous record set in 2020 and 0.93C warmer than the average September temperature between 1991 and 2020.

Experts believe that the heat is being caused by both the El Niño weather event and the ongoing emissions of warming gases. A few scientists expressed their surprise at the magnitude of the rise; and that the magnitude of the warming places new pressure on politicians to act as they prepare for the COP28 climate summit at the end of November.

The September result does not violate the 2015 Paris Accord to keep temperatures below 1.5 degrees Celsius since the Paris target relates to decades, not months. However, it is undeniably a concerning trend. Scientists anticipate that this year will remain below the 1.5C limit, but 2023 is "on track" to be the warmest on record.

Source: BBC 
Wednesday, December 27, 2023 – Eight North Korean citizens have been sanctioned by South Korea because they are linked to nuclear and missile development through arms trade, cyberattacks other illicit activities. The sanctions came days after an intercontinental ballistic missile was fired by North Korea. This action was strongly condemned by South Korea and the United States because it violates the resolution of the Security Council of the United Nations.

Part of the people that were blacklisted include Ri Chang Ho, head of the Reconnaissance General Bureau which is involved in overseas hacking operations, and Yun Chol who assisted in supplying nuclear materials while working with the North Korean Embassy in China.

Since October 2022, a total of 83 individuals and 53 entities related to North Korea’s weapons program have been blacklisted by South Korea.

Source: Reuters
SEOUL, Oct 23 (Reuters) - South Korea's Samsung SDI (006400.KS), opens new tab said on Monday it will supply Hyundai Motor (005380.KS), opens new tab with electric vehicle (EV) batteries for seven years starting 2026, marking the first battery supply deal between the two companies.
"The latest supply deal marks the first ever partnership between Samsung and Hyundai Motor Group in the field of electric vehicle batteries," Samsung SDI said in a statement.
The battery maker, which supplies to General Motors Co (GM.N), opens new tab, Stellantis (STLAM.MI), opens new tab, and BMW (BMWG.DE), opens new tab among others, added that it will supply prismatic batteries manufactured at its factory in Hungary for Hyundai Motor's EVs targeting the European market from 2026 through 2032.
While Samsung SDI and Hyundai Motor did not disclose the size of the deal, Samsung SDI would likely supply EV batteries that could power about 500,000 EVs over the next seven years, an industry source familiar with the matter told Reuters.
Earlier this month, Samsung SDI said it plans to invest 2.7 trillion won ($2 billion) to build a second joint EV battery plant with Stellantis in the U.S. state of Indiana, targeting to start production in 2027.
Shares of Samsung SDI were trading up 0.3%, versus benchmark KOSPI's (.KS11), opens new tab 0.1% fall as of 0203 GMT.