Monday, February 20, 2023 — The president of the United States, Joe Biden, paid a surprise visit to Kyiv on Monday, which makes it the first time he has been to the country since the invasion of Russia almost a year ago.

Biden announced a new $500 million assistance for Ukraine, saying the package would include more military equipment, such as artillery ammunition, more javelins, and Howitzers. He also announced that new sanctions would be imposed on Moscow later in the week.

Biden’s visitation in person shows a sign of American support for President Zelensky. After a very long journey from Washington, Biden got to Kyiv at 8 a.m. local time and arrived at the Mariinsky Palace 30 minutes later. President Zelensky shook his hand as he was about to depart in the afternoon and said, “thank you for coming.”

Source: CNN 
Thursday, March 16, 2023 – The President of Honduras, Xiomara Castro, said she had instructed her foreign minister to establish official relations with China. The relationship with China would see their ties with Taiwan end. With Honduras's switching from Taipei to Beijing, Taiwan has only diplomatic ties with 13 countries.

The move from Castro came weeks after she said her government announced it was negotiating with China to build a hydroelectric dam called Patuca II. Honduras' foreign minister, Eduardo Reina, said the country’s debt motivated the decision.

The foreign ministry of Taiwan expressed serious concern over the announcement of the President of Honduras and urged the country to reconsider its position.

The Foreign Ministry of China said the move was welcome and said it would develop friendly and cooperative relations with Honduras.

Source: The Guardian
Tuesday, January 31, 2023 — After sending tanks, the United States and the United Kingdom have crumbled Ukraine’s hope to get fighters from western Allies. Western Allies have concluded that they will no longer send F-16S and other western fighter jets to Ukraine.

The President of the United States, Joe Biden, replied “no” when asked whether or not he would send F-16s to Ukraine, but said he would remain in contact with Ukraine over their weapons request. A spokesperson at Downing Street also said sending the Jets to Ukraine isn’t practical as they are sophisticated equipment.

Ukraine began requesting the fighter jets manufactured by the United States defense company just after the U.S. and Germany agreed to send their own tanks to Ukraine for the first time. A spokesperson of Ukraine’s Airforce said Ukraine was seeking 200 fighter jets.

Source: The Guardian 
With critical minerals such as graphite and lithium becoming increasingly sparse and expensive, Honda is among the automakers turning to recyclers to fill the supply gap. Battery material recyclers and manufacturers, meanwhile, are working to ramp up their operations to meet the demand. 

Ascend Elements is currently in the process of building a $1 billion battery materials recycling facility in Hopkinsville, Kentucky, which will produce enough EV battery material annually to power more than 250,000 electric vehicles. 

Others in the sector are also scaling up and forming high-profile partnerships. 

In December, battery recycler Redwood Materials announced it would spend $3.5 billion on a new battery materials facility in Charleston, South Carolina. And in September, GM signed an agreement with Lithion Recycling to use the company’s advanced battery recycling technology.

Ascend Elements’ deal with Honda is also an example of the growing push among EV makers to create “closed loop” battery supply chains. Such systems aim to limit the amount of wasted critical materials by reclaiming battery parts.

Honda is striving to reach carbon neutrality throughout the product life cycle by 2050, as part of a broader sustainability plan, which includes 100% use of sustainable materials and 100% utilization of carbon-free electricity. The company is also in the midst of building an EV battery plant in Ohio, as it targets having EVs represent 100% of its vehicle sales in North America by 2040. 