Friday, December 1, 2023 – Israel launched an attack at targets across Gaza following the end of a seven-day ceasefire on Friday, after the negotiation of the release of more hostages failed overnight. More than 100 Palestinians were killed in the recent attack from Israel.

According to Israel’s military, they confirmed that by lunchtime, they had already attacked 200 targets from land, sea, and air across the north and south of the strip, which include a south city that Israel had ordered civilians to evacuate from, Khan Younis.

Israel confirmed that the reason the truce broke and could not be renewed was because Hamas had failed to release the remaining female hostages in Gaza. According to an Israeli Government spokesperson, Eylon Levy, he said that “Having chosen to hold on to Israeli women, Hamas will now take the mother of all thumping.”

Source: The Guardian 
Wednesday, December 27, 2023 – Eight North Korean citizens have been sanctioned by South Korea because they are linked to nuclear and missile development through arms trade, cyberattacks other illicit activities. The sanctions came days after an intercontinental ballistic missile was fired by North Korea. This action was strongly condemned by South Korea and the United States because it violates the resolution of the Security Council of the United Nations.

Part of the people that were blacklisted include Ri Chang Ho, head of the Reconnaissance General Bureau which is involved in overseas hacking operations, and Yun Chol who assisted in supplying nuclear materials while working with the North Korean Embassy in China.

Since October 2022, a total of 83 individuals and 53 entities related to North Korea’s weapons program have been blacklisted by South Korea.

Source: Reuters
Sunday, November 26, 2023 – During a meeting with the Prime Minister of Vietnam, Pham Minh Chinh, the commerce minister of China, Wang Wentao promised to deepen the bilateral trade ties between China and Vietnam. Mr. Wang said though the relations with Vietnam had already achieved fruitful results, it would now include strategic areas like digital economy, green development, and cross-border e-commerce.

Both China and the United States have been trying to get influence among Southeast Asian nations, which includes Vietnam, which stepped up its ties with Washington in September to a comprehensive strategic partnership.

The Vice Foreign Minister of China, Sun Weidong held a talk with the Deputy Foreign Minister of Vietnam, Nguyen Minh Vu concerning bilateral ties, land border, and maritime issues. Though Chinese President Xi Jinping was expected to travel to Hanoi in late October or early November, it was postponed till December.

Source: Reuters
BEIJING, Dec 7 (Reuters) - China said on Thursday that Biden administration plans to limit Chinese content in batteries eligible for generous electric vehicle tax credits from next year violate international trade norms and will disrupt global supply chains.
The plans will make investors in the U.S. electric vehicle (EV) supply chain ineligible for tax credits should they use more than a trace amount of critical materials from China, or other countries deemed a "Foreign Entity of Concern" (FEOC).
"Targeting Chinese enterprises by excluding their products from a subsidy's scope is typical non-market orientated policy," said He Yadong, a commerce ministry spokesperson.
"Many World Trade Organization members, including China, have expressed concern about the discriminatory policy of the U.S., which violates the WTO's basic principles," he said.
China's dominant position in the global battery supply chain has prompted United States and European officials to take action over fears that cheap Chinese EVs could flood their markets.
The European Commission is currently investigating whether Chinese manufacturers benefit from unfair state subsidies.
Washington has already passed two laws explicitly excluding investors from being able to benefit from a $6 billion allocation of tax credits for batteries and critical minerals, as well as subsidies of $7,500 for every new energy vehicle produced, should they include FEOCs in their supply chains.
The term applies to China, Russia, North Korea and Iran. The rules will come into effect in 2024 for completed batteries and 2025 for the critical minerals.
U.S. President Joe Biden's administration is also proposing tough criteria, including a 25% ownership threshold, for determining whether a company is controlled by a FEOC.
"By establishing 'glass barriers', the U.S. is doing more harm than good to the development of EV technologies and the industry more broadly," He said, warning that the plans would "seriously disrupt international trade and investment".