Monday, December 25, 2023 – A Russian opposition leader, Alexei Navalny, who was jailed has been found in a remote prison colony above the Arctic Circle after he went missing for over three weeks. His spokesperson confirmed that they tracked Navalny down to the IK-3 penal colony in Kharp, which is about 1,200 miles northeast of Moscow.

Navalny was sentenced to close to three decades in jail after he started a nationwide political opposition against President Vladimir Putin. He then disappeared from a prison in the Vladimir region close to Moscow on December 6. Three lawyers who were representing Navalny were previously detained by Russian authorities so that they could isolate him completely.

Navalny was previously poisoned in Russia in 2020, after which he was evacuated to Germany for treatment. He returned to Russia in 2021, after which he was arrested and sentenced to 30 decades in prison on charges of fraud.

Source: The Guardian 
Thursday, November 16, 2023 – Almost 3,000 towns and communities in Brazil have received red alerts because of an unusual heatwave. The heat has affected over a hundred million people and is predicted to linger for a few more days.

Rio de Janeiro recorded 42.5 degrees Celsius on Sunday, a record for November, and heavy humidity on Tuesday made it seem like 58.5 degrees Celsius, according to municipal authorities, while The National Institute of Meteorology reported average temperatures of 37.3 degrees Celsius in Sao Paulo on Tuesday afternoon.

Officials blamed it on the El Nio phenomenon which is typically responsible for increased global temperature as well as climate change that is causing the increased frequency and duration of extreme weather events.

The heatwave, which arrives more than a month before the start of summer in the southern hemisphere, has caused Brazil's energy usage to reach new highs as people strive to stay cool.

Source: BBC 
Wednesday, November 1, 2023 – Officials confirm that foreign nationals and injured Palestinians have been granted access to crossing from Gaza into Egypt. On Wednesday, 81 injured Palestinians that were injured severely were expected to enter Egypt, out of which dozens have already arrived and undergoing treatment in several hospitals across Egypt.

An official of Egypt confirmed that more than 360 foreign nationals have also left Gaza through the Rafah border crossing. He said dozens of them are making their way down to Cairo, where they will catch a plane to their respective countries.

The existence is due to a deal that was brokered by Qatar between Israel, Hamas, and Egypt, in coordination with the United States. The deal allows for the release of foreign nationals and critically injured civilians from Gaza. The agreement is separate from hostage negotiations.

Source: CNN 
SEOUL, Oct 23 (Reuters) - South Korea's Samsung SDI (006400.KS), opens new tab said on Monday it will supply Hyundai Motor (005380.KS), opens new tab with electric vehicle (EV) batteries for seven years starting 2026, marking the first battery supply deal between the two companies.
"The latest supply deal marks the first ever partnership between Samsung and Hyundai Motor Group in the field of electric vehicle batteries," Samsung SDI said in a statement.
The battery maker, which supplies to General Motors Co (GM.N), opens new tab, Stellantis (STLAM.MI), opens new tab, and BMW (BMWG.DE), opens new tab among others, added that it will supply prismatic batteries manufactured at its factory in Hungary for Hyundai Motor's EVs targeting the European market from 2026 through 2032.
While Samsung SDI and Hyundai Motor did not disclose the size of the deal, Samsung SDI would likely supply EV batteries that could power about 500,000 EVs over the next seven years, an industry source familiar with the matter told Reuters.
Earlier this month, Samsung SDI said it plans to invest 2.7 trillion won ($2 billion) to build a second joint EV battery plant with Stellantis in the U.S. state of Indiana, targeting to start production in 2027.
Shares of Samsung SDI were trading up 0.3%, versus benchmark KOSPI's (.KS11), opens new tab 0.1% fall as of 0203 GMT.