Wednesday, March 8, 2023 – According to a study in the "Nature" journal, the smoke from the Australian bushfires in 2019 and 2020 briefly reduced the ozone layer's thickness by 3% to 5% in 2020. Recent research showed that particles in wildfire smoke could trigger chemicals that damage the ozone layer, which raises the possibility that future ozone recovery may be slowed down by more intense and frequent fires.

The lead researcher, Prof Susan Solomon, an atmospheric scientist at MIT in the U.S., said the ozone breakdown by smoke particles was comparable to the Antarctic ozone hole emerging each spring, "but at much warmer temperatures."

The researchers also noted that although the ozone hole often forms over Antarctica due to the region's freezing temperatures, Wildfire aerosols appear capable of boosting ozone losses.

Source: The Guardian 
Friday, January 13, 2023 — After a long battle, the military of Russia confirmed that it is now in control of the salt-mine town of Soledar. They referred to it as a very important step for its offensive. The military spokesman said that following their victory, Russia could advance their troops to the nearby city of Bakhmut.

However, military analysts have debated the significance of the town for the Russian Military due to its small size. The US-based think tank Institute for the Study of War confirmed they do not believe it would be a strategic place to enable Russia to bring their troops to encircle Bakhmut.

Russia's capture of the city remains to be verified but will be termed a major victory for President Vladimir Putin if they actually have captured the city. The Russian side has not captured a single town in Ukraine since July 2022.

Source: BBC 
Friday, February 24, 2023 — China has urged the G20 nations to conduct a fair, objective, and in-depth analysis of the possible causes of the global debt issues and to tackle the problem comprehensively and effectively. Minister for finance in China, Liu Kun, joined a video meeting of the bloc’s finance ministers and central bank chiefs in Bengaluru and India.

According to the statement released by the Chinese finance ministry, Liu said that to resolve debt issues, international financial institutions and commercial creditors should go along with the principle of joint actions.

Officials from the IMF, the World Bank, and G7 nations will convene on Saturday for the first face-to-face discussions of the new IMF Global Sovereign Debt Roundtable.

Officials from Zambia and Ghana await assurance from China regarding debt-restructuring support.

Source: Reuters 
The U.S. moved this week to counter China’s control over production of electric vehicle batteries at a time of widespread concerns over global shortages of key minerals and labor abuses in African mines.

In a memorandum of understanding Wednesday, the State Department pledged to help build an EV battery supply chain in Congo and Zambia. The department and other U.S. agencies will offer technical assistance to the two countries, cooperate on feasibility studies and explore opportunities in the sector for U.S. companies, according to the MOU.

The goal is to shift Congo and Zambia from being only sites of extraction for minerals to processing, manufacturing and assembling batteries, according to the text (Energywire, Nov. 4, 2022).

“This is the future, and it is happening in [Congo] and in Zambia,” said Secretary of State Antony Blinken at the MOU’s signing on Dec. 13. The full text was not made public by the State Department until Wednesday.

The deal takes place in a region where the mining sector is of unrivaled importance for electric vehicles.

Congo and Zambia are major global sources of cobalt and copper, key ingredients in lithium-ion batteries. Once extracted, those minerals are often exported to China, where they are subsequently processed and incorporated into batteries.

China made about 75 percent of the world’s lithium-ion batteries in 2021, compared with 7 percent for the U.S., according to the International Energy Agency.

That has gained the attention of Congress, considering the Biden administration’s aim of ramping up electric car sales. By 2030, the administration wants as much as half of new car sales in the U.S. to be electric. Republicans have criticized that goal in part on the grounds that it would play into the hands of China and other geopolitical foes.

While the MOU did not mention China, helping Congo and Zambia scale up their own battery industries would create a new source of competition for the Asian country.

Kwasi Ampofo, head of metals and mining at BloombergNEF, noted that China controls about 80 percent of the battery “midstream,” referring to the conversion of minerals into usable battery parts.

“This MOU if implemented successfully will help move the needle for the U.S.,” he wrote in an email.

Elsewhere, the Biden administration has sought to improve U.S. access to non-Chinese sources of minerals used in EV batteries, solar panels and wind turbines. Under a flagship initiative announced last year, known as the Mineral Security Partnership, the administration has sought to fund overseas mining projects (Greenwire, Sept. 23, 2022).

The moves come as analysts predict a looming supply shortage of minerals that could slow the U.S. transition to electric cars and other low-carbon technologies. Last year, for instance, Wood Mackenzie released a report citing likely copper shortages for electric carmakers.

‘Unconscionable’ or advantageous?
The deal also raises questions about how new U.S. influence in the region might affect alleged labor abuses in the Congolese cobalt sector, which provides 70 percent of the world’s supply. Last year, the Labor Department added lithium-ion batteries to its list of goods made with child labor or forced labor due to reports of abuses in the country’s cobalt mines (Energywire, Oct. 5, 2022).

The Labor Department drew particular attention to child labor in Chinese-owned cobalt mines, which include some of the largest in Congo, and noted reports of adults being trafficked to work in small-scale mines in one part of the country.

Zambia also appeared on the Labor Department list for the presence of child labor in several non-energy-related industries. Human rights researchers have in past years denounced abusive conditions in Chinese-run copper mines.

The Biden administration’s initial December announcement of the battery partnership drew fire from Republican proponents of domestic mining.

“It’s unconscionable that Joe Biden and this activist administration chooses child slave labor over the American miner and the American worker,” Rep. Pete Stauber of Minnesota said in a Dec. 16 appearance on Fox News. Stauber, who is incoming chair of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources, has introduced bills that would shorten environmental reviews for critical mineral production within the U.S. (E&E Daily, Jan. 10).

By contrast, Ampofo said he thought the U.S.’s battery collaboration with Congo and Zambia could help combat labor abuses.

“The advantage of such partnerships is that it enforces global standard in regions where local standards are weak. An example is the Dodd-Frank Act which helped shine a spotlight on conflict minerals. This partnership could also help to strengthen and enforce standards and regulations that will address child labor,” he wrote in an email.

One type of project mentioned in the agreement concerns plants that refine minerals into precursor materials for batteries. Those plants are an example of the type of “industrialized economic growth” that the three countries want to support in Congo and Zambia, it said.

Two years ago, Ampofo led an analysis of that idea at the behest of the United Nations and several international financial institutions.

Building plants that produce battery cathode materials in Congo would cost one-third of what it would in China, he and his co-authors at BNEF concluded.

The plants could sell at competitive prices and leave a smaller emissions footprint than Chinese cathode material plants by drawing their power from low-carbon hydroelectric generators, the research said.

The State Department did not respond to a request for comment in time for publication.