Friday, January 6, 2023 – Not less than 24 people were killed when the Mexican authorities tried to apprehend the son of Mexican drug kingpin “El Chapo.” Ovidio Guzman-Lopez, son of El Chapo and 32 years old and the leader of the father’s former cartel, was flown to Mexico City after being captured in Culiacan.

10 military officers and 19 suspects were killed during his arrest. The Minister for Défense, Luis Cresencio Sandoval, said 35 other military officers we wounded and 21 suspects we also arrested.

Mr. Sandoval said the United States was part of the six-month surveillance operation to capture Mr. Guzman-Lopez. The operation sparked a lot of violence from the cartel members, from burning vehicles to hitting at least 2 planes with gunfire.

A Mexico federal Judge, however, blocked any extradition process against him.

Source: BBC 
Sunday. February 5, 2023 – Over the past few days, there have been reports of dozens of wildfires raging across central Chile, killing at least 23 people, destroying 800 homes, and prompting the declaration of an emergency in three regions. Sixty-six people have been injured in the fires, and nearly 1,500 others have sought refuge in shelters.

Three sparsely populated central regions have declared a state of emergency, home to many grape, apple, and berry farms and large tracts of forest land.

Carolina Tohá, Chile's interior minister, stated, "The flames should serve as yet another reminder of the consequences of the climate catastrophe. The development of climate change has repeatedly demonstrated its importance and potential to have a significant influence, which we must internalize much more."

Spain, the United States, Ecuador, Brazil, and Venezuela have all offered assistance, including aircraft and firemen, while Argentina is sending 64 firefighters, a forest fire pump truck, and a Chinook helicopter.

Source: The Guardian
Sunday, March 19, 2023 — The President of Russia, Vladimir Putin, paid a surprise visit to captured Ukrainian port city of Mariupol. The visit comes shortly after the International Criminal Court issued an arrest warrant for him on war crime charges. Footage released by Russian state media shows the president on his first trip to Russian-occupied territories in Ukraine since the beginning of the Invasion.

The city of Mariupol fell in May last year in what is described as the bloodiest battle in the war. It was tagged as the first major victory of Russia in the war with Ukraine after it failed to seize the capital, Kyiv.

He left Mariupol for Rostov, where he met with the chief of the general staff, Valery Gerasimov, a commander of Russia’s war effort in Ukraine.

Source: The Guardian
A wave of new planned electric vehicle battery plants will increase North America’s battery manufacturing capacity from 55 Gigawatt-hours per year (GWh/year) in 2021 to nearly 1,000 GWh/year by 2030. Most of the announced battery plant projects are scheduled to begin production between 2025 and 2030. By 2030, this production capacity will be capable of supporting the manufacture of roughly 10 to 13 million all-electric vehicles per year.

To optimize supply chain logistics, many battery plants will be co-located with automotive plants. Most of the planned projects in the United States are concentrated along a north-south band from Michigan to Alabama. Based on current plans, Kentucky, Tennessee, Georgia, and Michigan will see the highest growth in battery manufacturing capacity.

