Wednesday, March 1, 2023 — Over 200 Indonesian children have died after ingesting cough syrup. Families recount similar stories of children consuming drugs; soon after, they could not pee, eat, or drink. They would begin to bleed profusely and would require dialysis regularly to survive.

At least 116 medications from six firms have been recalled due to excessive hazardous ingredients like diethylene glycol and ethylene glycol.

Twenty-five parents have joined a class action lawsuit against Indonesia's health ministry, food and drug agency, and eight pharmaceutical businesses, including some raw material suppliers, for their children's death and suffering. Parents expect the government and firms concerned to accept responsibility and improve production methods and illness control standards. 

The parents also want the incident to be designated as an "extraordinary event," implying that the government would fund all treatment costs. Presently, the parents state that treatment costs are funded by Indonesia's national health insurance, which is insufficient to cover co-morbidities and other expenditures.

Source: The Guardian  
Monday, February 6, 2023 - Sources from Palestine and Israel confirm that multiple Palestinian militants were killed in a raid conducted by the Israeli army close to Jericho. The death toll is yet to be confirmed, but it is believed to be 5.

The Israel Défense Force (IDF) said the aim of the operation was to arrest a “Hamas terrorist cell”, which was responsible for the gun attack on a restaurant close to a Jewish settlement near Jericho.

Witnesses confirmed that they heard multiple gunfires during the incident in the Aqabat Jabr refugee camp. The spokesperson of the Israeli Defence Force, Ran Kochav, said the soldiers had neutralized the terrorist. He added that some of the terrorists neutralized were involved in the attack on the restaurant.

Jihad Abu al-Assal, the Governor of Jericho, said that, with the five people that the IDF killed, 8 people have also been arrested.

Source: BBC 
Thursday, March 16, 2023 – The President of Honduras, Xiomara Castro, said she had instructed her foreign minister to establish official relations with China. The relationship with China would see their ties with Taiwan end. With Honduras's switching from Taipei to Beijing, Taiwan has only diplomatic ties with 13 countries.

The move from Castro came weeks after she said her government announced it was negotiating with China to build a hydroelectric dam called Patuca II. Honduras' foreign minister, Eduardo Reina, said the country’s debt motivated the decision.

The foreign ministry of Taiwan expressed serious concern over the announcement of the President of Honduras and urged the country to reconsider its position.

The Foreign Ministry of China said the move was welcome and said it would develop friendly and cooperative relations with Honduras.

Source: The Guardian
A wave of new planned electric vehicle battery plants will increase North America’s battery manufacturing capacity from 55 Gigawatt-hours per year (GWh/year) in 2021 to nearly 1,000 GWh/year by 2030. Most of the announced battery plant projects are scheduled to begin production between 2025 and 2030. By 2030, this production capacity will be capable of supporting the manufacture of roughly 10 to 13 million all-electric vehicles per year.

To optimize supply chain logistics, many battery plants will be co-located with automotive plants. Most of the planned projects in the United States are concentrated along a north-south band from Michigan to Alabama. Based on current plans, Kentucky, Tennessee, Georgia, and Michigan will see the highest growth in battery manufacturing capacity.

