Saturday, November 11, 2023 – The director of a hospital in Gaza confirmed that Israeli tanks have surrounded the territory’s largest healthcare facility. Mustafa al-Kahlout, who heads the hospital in northern Gaza said that they were surrounded and asked for assistance from the Red Cross in evacuating.

A spokesperson of the World Health Organization said that al-Shifa was under serious Israeli strike, adding that 20 hospitals in the Gaza Strip were out of action. However, the Israeli military said that the attack on al-Shifa hospital was because of a misfired projectile that was launched from inside Gaza.

It is not clear what struck the hospital, but the videos seen show injured people lying on the ground of the outdoor clinic. Doctors Without Borders confirmed that they have lost contact with its staff inside Al-Shifa hospital.

Source: CNN 
Sunday, October 22, 2023 – A missile that hit a distribution center in Ukraine has killed six postal workers and left 14 other workers injured. The president of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, posted on Telegram that the Nova Poshta sorting office was struck in Kharkiv. He confirmed that rescue operations were being carried out and emergency services were working at the scene of the incident.

The regional Governor of Kharkiv, Oleh Syniehubov said that all the victims worked for the postal company. He wrote on his Telegram that the victims of the strike were aged between 19 and 42.

Russia has yet to comment on the strike but has always denied ever targeting civilians during its invasion of Ukraine.

The city of Kharkiv which is not too far from the Russian border was heavily bombed during the first week of invasion in February. The mayor of Kharkiv said earlier this month that the first-ever underground school in Ukraine would be built in the city to allow children to go to school safely.

Source: BBC 
Friday, November 24, 2023 – After a long intense battle between Israel and Hamas, the first group of hostages were released from Gaza on Friday. Hamas released 24 hostages, 13 of them being Israelis, 10 Thais, and a Philippine national. The hostage release is part of the deal that facilitated a ceasefire and the release of Palestinians imprisoned in Israel.

Israel also released a total of 39 Palestinian prisoners on Friday evening. Those that were released included 24 women, including some who were convicted of attempted murder, and 15 teenagers who were jailed for offenses such as throwing stones.

According to the agreement, Hamas is expected to release not less than 50, out of the 240 Israeli hostages. Israel on the other hand is expected to release at least 150 Palestinian prisoners and allow close to 300 trucks of humanitarian aid into Gaza.

Source: The Guardian 
Nissan will pump 1.12 billion pounds ($1.4 billion) into its British plant to build electric versions of two models, offering a boost to the country’s auto industry and a UK prime minister desperate to attract foreign investment.

The Japanese automaker said Friday that its plans for electric versions of the Qashqai and Juke, produced in Sunderland in northeast England, would require a total investment of up to £2 billion ($2.5 billion), including a third battery plant in Britain and infrastructure projects that its partners would help to finance.

The project is expected to receive UK government support.

Nissan has made its electric Leaf model in Sunderland for years and will continue to do so, with batteries supplied by a small plant at the site.

In 2021, the company announced a $1.4 billion investment to build a second, 9 gigawatt-hour (GWh) battery plant in Sunderland with Chinese partner Envision AESC.

Friday’s announcement comes just a few days before Prime Minister Rishi Sunak’s Global Investment Summit, when he will try to revive interest among overseas companies, which have cooled on Britain since the Brexit vote in 2016.

“Making the UK the best place to do business is at the heart of our economic plan,” Sunak said in a statement on Friday.

Nissan did not comment on the value of any subsidies or guarantees being provided by Britain.

“Government support is always important,” Nissan’s senior vice president for manufacturing and supply chain Alan Johnson told BBC radio. “Discussions are ongoing with the government, (and are) not concluded.”

Sunak will host Nissan President and chief executive Makoto Uchida at the summit next week.

Nissan’s investment will help support jobs for 7,000 workers in Sunderland and 30,000 people in the supply chain, and builds on a presence in Britain dating back to 1986.

For the Japanese company, Britain is a key hub. Its 2021 battery investment was a show of confidence when other foreign investors were avoiding the UK after Brexit led to years of uncertainty around the country’s trading relationships.

But Sunak, who became prime minister a year ago, is having some success turning that around.

The Nissan deal comes just months after India’s Tata Motors said it would invest £4 billion ($5 billion) in a UK electric vehicle battery plant to supply its Jaguar Land Rover factories.

Industry experts had described the Tata battery plant as good progress, but argue Britain needs much more EV battery production capacity to maintain a viable, growing auto industry.

Nissan plans to offer only fully electric cars in Europe by 2030. It said it would announce the names of the new EV models and timings for production launches at a later date.

The automaker’s latest UK investment comes despite Sunak’s decision in September to delay by five years a ban on sales of new petrol cars.