Friday, April 28, 2023 — At least 25 people have been confirmed after Russia launched a series of air strikes on cities across Ukraine, including Kyiv. Officials confirm that the attack that hit blocks of flats in the central city of Uman killed 23 people, including four children. Another woman and her 3-year-old daughter were killed in the city of Dnipro.

Rescuers were still working at the sites of the explosions, several hours after the attack, residents were also seen trying to retrieve some of their belongings. In the buildings nearby, residents were seen fixing their broken windows.

The Russian defense ministry, after the attack, said the strikes were targeted at Ukrainian army reserve units. 

The President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky the attack is evidence that further international actions have to be taken against Russia.

Source: BBC 
Wednesday, May 31, 2023 – Scientists from the Earth Commission provide troubling evidence that our world is facing rising problems in water supply, fertilizer loading, ecosystem management, and aerosol pollution. These endanger the stability of life-support systems and exacerbate socioeconomic inequality.

According to scientists, we have reached a saturation point where we have surpassed the limit of the Earth system's biophysical capacity to remain stable. “We are approaching tipping points, with more severe damage to global life-support systems.”

The study establishes a set of "safe and just" environmental criteria that may be compared to the vital signs of the human body. It examines indicators such as water flow, phosphorus usage, and land conversion rather than pulse, temperature, and blood pressure. The boundaries are based on a review of prior research conducted by universities and UN science organizations.

Source: The Guardian 
Friday, May 26, 2023 – Two people have been confirmed dead, and 23 others injured, after a missile strike hit a medical clinic in the eastern Ukrainian city of Dnipro, the region's governor said. 21 out of the 23 people that were injured are in the hospital, out of which three are in critical condition.

Recently, Russia has intensified its attack on Ukraine before the expected counteroffensive from Ukraine. The President of Ukraine, Mr. Zelensky, posted the video of the damaged clinic, where firefighters were seen at the scene. The firefighters were seen trying to cut down trees to get a mounted hose closer to the flame that had engulfed the building.

Authorities from Ukraine confirmed that they shot down 17 missiles and 31 drones launched by Russia overnight.

Source: BBC 
The carmaker’s battery assembly plant in South Carolina will be key to reducing logistics costs and risks in EV production.

When BMW Group starts production in 2026 at a new battery assembly plant in Woodruff, South Carolina, where executives broke ground this week, the plant will be an important hub in an integrated, localised supply chain for electric vehicle production for the carmaker globally.