Saturday, October 8, 2022 – A huge explosion severely damaged the only bridge that connects the annexed Crimean Peninsula with the Russian mainland, crippling a supply route for the Russian war efforts in Ukraine.

From the images and the video shown from the scene, a part of the roadway on the Kerch Strait road-and-rail bridge, opened by President Putin himself in 2018, collapsed due to the blast.

There is yet to be confirmation of exactly what caused the blast at Europe’s longest bridge. Officials of Russia said a truck exploded, causing Crimea-bound sections of the bridge’s roadway to fall. A subsequent fire engulfed a train of fuel tanks on a separate, adjacent rail portion of the bridge. 

Russian state media reported that Putin ordered a “government commission” to examine the Kerch bridge immediately.

Source: CNN 
Monday, November 7, 2022 – An ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin, who is a very powerful Russian businessman, Yevgeny Prigozhin, has admitted his interference in the United State elections on the eve of the midterm vote, which Republicans will seek to take control of Congress and state-wide offices across the country.

Prigozhin, who has previously been accused of influencing the outcome of elections across continents, said in a statement posted by his catering company that they interfered, they are interfering, and they will interfere.

The Spokesperson of President Biden, Karine Jean-Pierre, said the white house was not surprised by the remarks of Prigozhin. She said that “it is well known and well documented in the public domain that entities associated with Yevgeny Prigozhin have sought to influence elections around the world, including the United State.

Source: The Guardian
Wednesday, December 21, 2022 - The president of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, after arriving in the United States on his first foreign visit since the invasion of Ukraine, told the congress that aid to Ukraine is not a charity but an investment in democracy. He thus seeks more support from the United States for Ukraine’s war effort.

Before the arrival of the Ukrainian President, Antony Blinken, the Secretary of State announced that Ukraine would receive another $1.85 billion military aid from the United States, including a Patriot air defense system to help defend itself against Russian missiles.

About $50 billion in assistance have been sent to Ukraine by the United States dues to the biggest land conflict Europe has ever seen since World War II. But concern about the price tag has been shown by Republicans who will take control of the House of Representatives on Jan 3.

Source: Reuters 
DETROIT, Nov 14 (Reuters) - General Motors Co (GM.N), opens new tab plans to add more links to its North American battery supply chain, adding to roughly 20 deals, opens new tab so far, in a key strategy to help the Detroit automaker narrow the gap with Tesla Inc (TSLA.O), opens new tab in electric vehicle profitability.
GM Chief Executive Mary Barra and other executives are scheduled to brief investors Thursday on the automaker's progress toward scaling up production capacity to deliver 1 million electric vehicles a year in North America by 2025.

Tesla took an early lead in developing in-house battery production in the United States with its first Gigafactory near Reno, Nevada.
Among established North American automakers, GM has moved the fastest to emulate Tesla's strategy of building a battery manufacturing network from lithium extraction to assembly of battery packs and cells. GM's Ultium LLC joint venture with LG Energy Solutions has announced plans for four North American battery plants.

New federal subsidy policies signed into law in August as part of the Inflation Reduction Act could turn that domestic battery supply chain into a federally funded boost for GM's bottom line.
The IRA's EV tax credits and subsidies are designed to support domestic EV manufacturing. They could move GM closer to making money on affordably priced electric vehicles such as the Chevrolet Equinox SUV, which will have a starting price of about $30,000, roughly half the price of a Tesla Model Y.

The Inflation Reduction Act ties up to $3,750 per vehicle of federal tax credits to requirements that EV batteries be manufactured in North America using materials sourced in North America or from allied nations.
How much GM will reap in federal subsidies will depend on how technical rules are written by federal agencies. Analysts expect Tesla will harvest more overall than any rival through 2030.
"We'll ramp toward full qualification across the broad portfolio in 2 to 3 years as some of the different supply comes online in North America or in the United States," Barra said during a conference call on Oct. 25.
GM has announced 14 deals, opens new tab related to North American battery production since May 2021.
GM officials told Reuters the company has about 20 battery supply chain agreements in place, with more to come.
Federal subsidies will help GM and its rivals narrow the cost disadvantage new North American battery production operations will face in competition with Chinese battery producers, said Prabhakar Patil, a former executive at battery maker LG Chem.
"People who have a head start will have an advantage," Patil said. "The question is how fast you can catch up."