Friday, June 10, 2022 - The president of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, during talks with British Defense Secretary Ben Wallace in the Ukrainian capital on Friday, praised the British leadership and its assistance for Kyiv against the invasion of Russia.

Zelensky expresses his gratitude to Great Britain, the government, and the prime minister. He told Wallace, “The war highlights who is our friend or friends— not just strategic friends, but real friends now. And I believe Great Britain is a friend”.

He also added that Great Britain constantly demonstrates its leadership in “arms, money, and sanctions.

Wallace’s visitation comes a day after two Britons and a Moroccan were sentenced to death by a court in the self-proclaimed Donetsk People’s Republic. The separatist leaders of the latter are backed by Moscow after being captured while fighting for Ukraine.

Source: Reuters 
Wednesday, May 18, 2022 - A flood from the torrential rainfall caused miners to be trapped in a Canadian-owned mine. Since the accident, A 24-hour-a-day rescue effort employing specialized equipment brought in from Ghana and South Africa has been underway.

It has taken about 4 weeks to reach the first rescue chambers that could be a point of refuge for the trapped miners. However, no miner was found in the chamber, located at about 560 meters from the surface.

Millions of liters of water have been pumped out of the mine. The rescue engineers have found it difficult to work in humid conditions to save their colleagues. All efforts are directed towards reaching the second refuge chamber, located at about 710 meters from the surface.

The miners’ wives have gathered close to the area in prayer congregations, with tears and hopes that their husbands will be found alive.

Source: BBC
Sunday, June 5, 2022 - According to the South Korean Joint Chiefs of Staff, North Korea fired eight short-range ballistic missiles (SRBM) into the waters off its east coast in an unprecedented move.

The missiles were launched in North Korea into waters east of the Korean peninsula from multiple sites between 9:08 a.m. and 9:43 a.m. Seoul local time on Sunday. This is the third missile test by North Korea since the new South Korean president took office on May 10.

The Japanese Prime Minister, Fumio Kishida, protested the launch, saying it violated UN resolutions.

Japan’s Defense Ministry also reported that six of the missiles reached a maximum altitude of between 50 to 100 kilometers (31 to 62 miles) and traveled a distance of about 300 to 400 kilometers (186 to 249 miles).

Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Won In-Choul also held a virtual meeting with the Commander of the ROK-US Combined Forces Command, Paul LaCamera. They reaffirmed their defense’s capability to immediately detect and intercept North Korean missiles.

Source: CNN
GM has signed a multi-year sourcing agreement for the supply of cobalt from Glencore’s mining operation in Australia. Both are members of the Responsible Minerals Initiative

Cobalt is an important metal in the production of EV batteries. The material processed from Australia will be used in GM’s Ultium battery cathodes, which will support models such as the Chevrolet Silverado EV, GMC Hummer EV and Cadillac LYRIQ.  

“GM and our suppliers are building an EV ecosystem that is focused on sourcing critical raw materials in a secure sustainable manner,” said Jeff Morrison, GM vice president, Global Purchasing and Supply Chain. “Importantly, given the critical role of EVs in reducing the carbon footprint of the transportation sector, this agreement is aligned with our approach to responsible sourcing and supply chain management.”