Saturday, September 24, 2022 – The United States has been accused by China of sending “very wrong, dangerous signals” to Taiwan after the secretary of state of the United State told his Chinese counterpart that maintenance of peace and stability over Taiwan was vitally important.

US officials told reporters that, the focus of the 90-minute, direct and honest talks between the secretary of state, Antony Blinken, and the Chinese foreign minister, Wang Yi, was Taiwan, their discussion was on the margins of the UN general assembly in New York.

The Foreign Ministry of China said in a statement on the meeting that United States was sending a very wrong dangerous signal to Taiwan, and warned that the more rampant Taiwan’s independence activity, the less likely there would be a peaceful settlement.

Chinese Foreign ministry tagged the Taiwan issue as an “Internal Chinese matter”, and said the United States has no right to interfere in the method used to resolve it.

Source: The Guardian
Friday, September 16, 2022 – The Ministry of Defense in Ukraine in a Twitter post on Friday, said Ukrainian authorities have found 440 unmarked graves at a burial site in Izium, a city in the eastern part of Ukraine recently recaptured from Russian forces. 

Volodymyr Zelensky said the Ukrainian and international journalists would be shown the site to see what had been uncovered. He also added that they “want the world to know what is really happening and what the Russian occupation has led to.”

The Center for Strategic Communications in Ukraine said some of the graves that were discovered in Izium were fresh, and that civilians constitute the highest number of the people buried there.

In April, Izium was subjected to intense artillery attacks from Russia, and the city, which is located near the border between the Kharkiv and Donetsk regions, became a crucial hub for the invading military during five months of occupation.

Source: CNN
Friday, August 5, 2022 – The Chinese Foreign Ministry announced the new countermeasures against Washington, including the suspension of the climate talks following Speaker Pelosi’s visit to Taiwan.

These measures will see the cancellation of future phone calls and messages between Chinese and US defense leaders, for which future dates have not been announced. It will also mean that China will cancel annual naval meetings under the China-US military maritime consultation mechanism. 

China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that “US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi insisted on visiting Taiwan in disregard of China’s serious concerns and firm opposition, seriously interfering in China’s internal affairs, undermining China’s sovereignty, territorial integrity, trampling on the One-China principle, and seriously threatening the peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait.” 

Beijing took these measures after sanctioning Pelosi and her immediate family members over her visit to Taiwan. China has already stepped-up military drills and warplane incursions around the island.

Source: CNN 
Volkswagen said it would invest $20.38 billion to build electric vehicle batteries, a move the company says will create 20,000 jobs and generate $20.38 billion in annual sales. The automaker will create a new company called Power Co to oversee the vast effort as VW races to secure enough capacity, materials, and supplies to power its EV ambitions.

Power Co will manage VW’s entire battery supply chain, from research and development of new technologies to the mining of the raw materials to end-of-life recycling. The news was announced at a groundbreaking ceremony for the company’s first battery plant in Salzgitter, a city in Germany’s Lower Saxony.

“The battery cell business is one of the cornerstones of our New Auto strategy which will make Volkswagen a leading provider of the sustainable, software-driven mobility of tomorrow,” VW CEO Herbert Diess said in a statement. “Establishing our own cell factory is a megaproject in technical and economic terms. It shows that we are bringing the leading-edge technology of the future to Germany!”

Last year, VW unveiled plans to build six battery cell production plants in Europe by 2030, including the facility in Salzgitter and one in Skelleftea, Sweden. A third plant will be established in Valencia, Spain, and the fourth factory will be based in Eastern Europe. The company is also exploring plans to build future gigafactories in North America. The plants will eventually have a production capacity of 240 gigawatt-hours a year.

Starting in 2023, VW plans to roll out a new unified prismatic cell design of its batteries that will be installed across the automaker’s brands. The goal is to have this unified cell design powering up to 80 percent of VW’s electric vehicles by 2030. VW also has contracts with two other major battery producers, Samsung and CATL. And the company is backing a startup based in San Jose, California, QuantumScape, which is working on more energy-efficient solid-state batteries.

VW isn’t the only automaker to see vertical integration as a key component to EV success. Ford is building three new battery plants that it says will have 129 GWh a year of production capacity. General Motors is planning four new battery factories in the US with LG Chem for a total annual capacity of 140 GWh. Stellantis is building a $2.5 billion battery plant in Indiana, and Hyundai and Toyota have also announced cell production plans in the US.

VW, which is the second-largest automaker in the world based on volume, has run into headwinds in its shift to electric vehicles. Diess recently said that the company was “basically sold out on electric vehicles in Europe and in the United States for the year,” which means that anyone hoping to get an EV from VW, Audi, or any of the group’s other brands may have to wait until 2023, as the company tries to navigate the chip shortage and production issues from COVID shutdowns in China.
