Wednesday, June 22, 2022 – In what appears to be an attack inside Russia’s borders, dramatic footage of a drone crashing into an oil refinery and causing a fiery explosion has emerged from Russia. 

According to social media footage, the drone crashed into the Novoshakhtinsk oil refinery in Rostov in what would be a suspected breach of Russia’s air defense. Despite using drones during the war, Ukraine has not claimed responsibility for the alleged attack.

If the refinery attack is confirmed, it will imply that the drone was launched from within Russia or passed over Russian-controlled territory on its way to the refinery, passing through Russian air defense systems along the way.

Although no one was hurt in the incident, the refinery has seized operation as they wait for repairs.

Source: The Guardian
Thursday, June 2, 2022 - For decades, Singapore has relied on Malaysia for a third of its poultry imports. About 3.6 million live chickens are exported to Singapore every month.

In a dramatic turn of events, the Malaysian Prime Minister announced that there would be an embargo on the export of live chickens away from the country. This is an effort to tackle local shortages, which resulted in exorbitant prices.

The ban will affect Singapore hard both because chicken, along with rice, is the country's wildly acclaimed national dish. The locals also say that replacing fresh meat with frozen one will not be sufficient.

Following the news from Malaysia, the Singapore government has assured its citizens that there will be an adequate supply of chicken. However, the local traders say the poultry prices are bound to surge.

The shortage is expected to continue for months. It will be another addition to the list of food shortages that have rocked the entire globe in the past few months.

Sources: CNN 
Wednesday, April 4, 2022 - North Korea has not continued its nuclear weapons testing program since 2017, but neighboring South Korea and Japan attest to a recent launch of a ballistic missile from the Sunan airport. This missile has been traced to the ocean of North Korea’s east coast and is said to be part of Kim Jong Un’s renewed schedule to achieve nuclear arsenal dominance as fast as possible. Further, the Japanese Ministry of Defence has confirmed the ballistic missile’s launch.

As the possibility of the North Korean nuclear presence might increase, South Korea’s brand new President Yoon Suk-yeol— having only just taken office for a five-year term— promises the nation that their military alliance with the United States will be a major fallback, should the situation unfold badly.
Source: The Guardian
4月4日，宁德时代位于德国图林根州的首个海外工厂正式获得电芯生产许可，标志着宁德时代在全球布局方面迈出具有里程碑意义的一步。


在当天于“埃尔福特十字路口”工业区举行的庆祝仪式上，德国图林根州环境、能源及自然保护部长Anja Siegesmund及经济部长Wolfgang Tiefensee向宁德时代欧洲区联席总裁Matthias Zentgraf正式发放了第二阶段的许可证，宁德时代德国工厂由此获得8GWh的电芯产能许可。 


该工厂也是德国第一家电池工厂，目前正处于设备安装阶段，为第一批电芯能在2022年底前下线进行最后的冲刺。


“宁德时代德国工厂为全球迫切需要的能源转型带来了强大助力，我们很高兴成为第一家获准‘德国制造’的电池企业。”Zentgraf说，审批过程十分顺利快捷，与图林根州政府在审批上的合作堪称典范。
Siegesmund表示，德国的电动汽车目前发展势头迅猛，图林根欢迎从生产阶段就积极践行可持续发展理念的企业。

“对于图林根州来说，宁德时代德国工厂是近几十年来最重要的工业投资之一。”Tiefensee说，“该项目可能成为点燃‘图林根电池硅谷’的星星之火，目前已带动一大批供应商入驻这一地区。”


宁德时代德国工厂主要包含两部分：G1是从其它公司购买的厂房，用于将电芯组装成模组。G2是新建的厂房，用于生产电芯。本次许可是针对G2的电芯生产许可。

Zentgraf 表示，宁德时代德国工厂几乎与芯片工厂一样复杂，对洁净室、技术清洁度和恒定湿度有严格的要求。此外，为了实现电池生产可持续，工厂的部分能源来自厂房屋顶上的太阳能电池板。


宁德时代德国工厂于2019年开工建设，计划于2022年底正式投产，届时会向当地提供1500个就业岗位。

该工厂计划总投资18亿欧元，规划产能14GWh，未来将为当地总共提供2000个就业岗位。工厂位于德国的心脏地带，将为德国主要汽车厂商提供优质的产品和服务，助力欧洲全面电动化和能源转型。