Wednesday, July 20, 2022 – The former Sri Lanka Prime Minister, Ranil Wickremesinghe, was elected by the lawmakers as the president of the crisis-hit South Asian country. This move will likely anger the protesters since they have demanded his removal from office for weeks.

Wickremesinghe, who is a six-time former prime minister and an essential ally of the former President, Gotabaya Rajapaksa, won a parliamentary ballot after his predecessor ran away from the country due to an escalating protest over an economic crisis marked by a dire shortage of essential imports such as food, medicine, and fuel. He received 134 votes out of a possible 223.

While Wickremesinghe addressed the country shortly after being elected president by the lawmakers, he said, “While the country has been divided into party lines, the time has come to work together.”

As the voting was in progress, a small group of protesters gathered at the president’s residence to protest Wickremesinghe’s nomination.

Source: CNN 
Tuesday, August 30, 2022 – In the southern part of China, Shenzhen shut down the most prominent electronic market in the world and had public transport suspended nearby as authorities enforced neighborhood-wide lockdowns in response to a small number of Covid cases.

According to the district government, Huaqianbei, a busy shopping area home to thousands of stalls selling computer components, mobile phones parts, and microchips, is among three neighborhoods placed under a mandatory four-day lockdown in the Futian district.

China is one of the places in the world still enforcing stringent zero-Covid measures. Except for supermarkets, pharmacies, and hospitals in the affected area, all businesses are shut down through Thursday. Restaurant dining is also suspended, with only takeaways allowed. 

Due to the heavy-handed approach, dozens of neighborhoods across Shenzhen have been identified as "high-risk areas" and placed under strict lockdown orders.

Source: CNN
Friday, August 5, 2022 – The Chinese Foreign Ministry announced the new countermeasures against Washington, including the suspension of the climate talks following Speaker Pelosi’s visit to Taiwan.

These measures will see the cancellation of future phone calls and messages between Chinese and US defense leaders, for which future dates have not been announced. It will also mean that China will cancel annual naval meetings under the China-US military maritime consultation mechanism. 

China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that “US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi insisted on visiting Taiwan in disregard of China’s serious concerns and firm opposition, seriously interfering in China’s internal affairs, undermining China’s sovereignty, territorial integrity, trampling on the One-China principle, and seriously threatening the peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait.” 

Beijing took these measures after sanctioning Pelosi and her immediate family members over her visit to Taiwan. China has already stepped-up military drills and warplane incursions around the island.

Source: CNN 
Electric vehicle makers across the country spent the summer investing in ambitious supplier deals and production plans to bolster their supply of EV batteries. Skyrocketing demand for the vehicles has highlighted constraints in the supply and processing of minerals needed for EV batteries.

Industry observers warn that global graphite demand could soon outstrip supply, and Tesla CEO Elon Musk is among a number of executives sounding the alarm on lithium processing constraints. At the same time, companies are striving to shift sourcing and production to North America in order to qualify for the Biden administration’s EV tax credits under the Inflation Reduction Act.

Here are some of the plans automakers have announced in recent months to keep up with demand and begin to build an EV supply chain in North America.

Facility investments
Perhaps the most frequent strategy among global automakers is investment in their own battery production facilities, many of them in the U.S. The facilities will help companies to shorten their supply chains and qualify for the Biden administration’s tax credits.

On Wednesday, Toyota announced it will spend another $2.5 billion on its upcoming North Carolina battery production facility, which will supply batteries for hybrid EVs and battery electric vehicles beginning in 2025. Toyota announced the project last year, with an initial investment of $1.29 billion.

Tesla battery supplier Panasonic is investing nearly $10 billion to establish two battery production facilities in the U.S. The company announced plans in July for a $4 billion facility in Kansas, and is eyeing Oklahoma for its next site, according to a report from The Wall Street Journal.

Expanded sourcing
Ford and GM both announced a spate of new battery supplier agreements in July, expanding their sourcing pools in the hopes of keeping up with production goals.

Ford’s deals with suppliers from around the globe will bring the automaker additional lithium, graphite, cobalt and nickel stock. GM also struck multiple deals that include both additional supply and the potential for new production facilities. As part of its six-year agreement with lithium provider LG Chem, GM will explore building a cathode active material plant in North America by 2025.

The same month, Tesla also forged two new supplier deals with China-based companies Zhejiang Huayou Cobalt and CNGR Advanced Material Co. for ternary precursor material, chemicals that store energy for lithium-ion batteries. The deals begin in 2022 and 2023 respectively, and last until 2025, according to stock exchange filings.

Supplier acquisitions and joint ventures
In August, Nikola announced it would acquire energy storage technology company Romeo Power, which focuses on manufacturing lithium-ion battery modules and packs. The deal, which took its next step forward on Tuesday, will bring Nikola’s battery pack production in-house. The EV maker hopes the acquisition of Romeo’s California facility will help it wield greater operational and cost control over its battery supply chain.

Honda formed a joint venture with South Korea-based LG Energy Solutions last month, part of a plan to produce lithium-ion batteries for the North American market. The two will invest $4.4 billion in a JV battery plant in the U.S. with plans to begin mass production by the end of 2025. Ohio Governor Mike DeWine stated he is pushing the companies to bring the plant to his state.

Government supply agreements
Other companies are striking up deals with governments in a bid to boost opportunities for suppliers across the country. Volkswagen and Mercedes-Benz signed separate agreements with the government of Canada last month to ramp up sourcing efforts in the country.

The agreements will provide the automakers with supplies of lithium, cobalt and other raw materials, and “offer Canadian suppliers an opportunity to act as raw material suppliers, refiners and processors,” Volvo said in a statement. Mercedes-Benz will explore mining, refining and cell manufacturing opportunities in Canada as part of its agreement.