Moscow and Kyiv
CNN
 — 
Russian forces have begun an attack on Ukraine, with reports of troops crossing the border to the north and south, explosions in multiple cities including the capital Kyiv and warnings from Russian President Vladimir Putin of bloodshed unless Ukrainian forces lay down their arms.

The offensive that Russia called a “special military operation” came as world leaders attempted to avert catastrophe with a meeting of the United Nations Security Council amid warnings that a possible invasion could start the biggest war in Europe since 1945.

The first blasts were heard at around 5 a.m. Thursday, prompting immediate condemnation from the United States and its allies, which have threatened to enact “full scale” sanctions in response to Russian military aggression.


As air raid sirens rang out across Kyiv early Thursday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky moved to enact martial law and government ministers accused Moscow of launching a “full scale invasion.” As dawn broke, heavy traffic could be seen clogging roads heading west out of the city, while further east, near the Russian border, the mayor of Kharkiv urged citizens not to leave their homes.

Inhabitants of Kyiv leave the city following pre-offensive missile strikes of the Russian armed forces and Belarus on February 24.
Inhabitants of Kyiv leave the city following pre-offensive missile strikes of the Russian armed forces and Belarus on February 24. Pierre Crom/Getty Images
Ukraine’s Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba tweeted on his official page that “peaceful Ukrainian cities are under strike” and called the situation “a war of aggression.” And an adviser to the Ukrainian Interior Minister, Anton Gerashchenko, told journalists Russia’s “invasion has begun” with “missile strikes on Kyiv.”

CNN witnessed, through a livestream video, troops atop a column of military vehicles entering Ukraine from a border crossing with Belarus. The livestream video was taken at the Senkivka, Ukraine crossing with Veselovka, Belarus. The column was seen entering Ukraine at about 6:48 a.m. local time.

Military vehicles are seen on a livestream video entering Ukraine from Belarus.
Military vehicles are seen on a livestream video entering Ukraine from Belarus. From Ukrainian Border Guard
In recent weeks, Russia has amassed a significant number of troops, vehicles and tanks in Belarus near the border with Ukraine. During that time, the two countries have held joint military exercises across the countries, and near the Belarus-Ukrainian border.

CNN teams in Russia and Ukraine also heard blasts from several parts of Ukraine, including near the capital Kyiv and the port city of Odessa, and images released by the office of President Zelensky showed large explosions to the east of the capital Kyiv with huge columns of smoke rising into the air.

The General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces said five Russian aircraft and a helicopter were shot down early Thursday, claims Russia denied via state news agency TASS.

An explosion is seen in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv early Thursday, February 24.
An explosion is seen in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv early Thursday, February 24. Ukrainian President's Office
Hours before, Putin announced a military operation in the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine, which contains the separatist-held regions of Donetsk and Luhansk which Moscow recognized as independent on Monday – in violation of international law.

In the address, broadcast live on Russian national television, Putin urged Ukrainian forces to lay down their arms and go home, saying all responsibility for possible bloodshed would be entirely on the conscience of the Ukrainian government.

“Our plans are not to occupy Ukraine, we do not plan to impose ourselves on anyone,” he said, but threatened “those who may be tempted to intervene” on Ukraine’s behalf.


“Whoever tries to interfere with us, and even more so to create threats to our country, to our people, should know that Russia’s response will be immediate and will lead you to such consequences as you have never experienced in your history,” he said.

Before the announcement of military action, Zelensky appealed for peace but vowed the country would defend itself.

“If we are attacked militarily, if they try to take away our freedom, our lives, our children’s lives, we will defend ourselves,” the Ukrainian President said, in a speech in Russian and directed at Russian citizens.”When you attack, you will see our faces and not our spines, our faces.”

In a second video message posted to his official Facebook page Thursday, Zelensky said Russia “began an attack on Ukraine today” and that Ukrainian forces had “already taken on the first blow of the enemy and are resisting.”

“Putin began war against Ukraine, against the entire democratic world. He wants to destroy my country, our country, everything we’ve been building, everything we are living for,” he said.

US President Joe Biden issued a statement saying Russia had launched “an unprovoked and unjustified attack” on the Ukrainian people.

“President Putin has chosen a premeditated war that will bring a catastrophic loss of life and human suffering,” he said. “Russia alone is responsible for the death and destruction this attack will bring, and the United States and its Allies and partners will respond in a united and decisive way. The world will hold Russia accountable.”

“These are among the darkest hours for Europe since the end of World War II. A major nuclear power has attacked a neighbor country and is threatening reprisals of any other states that may come to rescue,” said EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell in Brussels.

EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen promised to “weaken Russia’s economic base and its capacity to modernize” following its “barbaric attack” against Ukraine.

“We will freeze Russian assets in the European Union and stop the access of Russian banks to European financial markets,” she said.

Russian stocks plunged Thursday after trading resumed on the Moscow Stock Exchange. The Russian ruble also crashed to an all-time low against the dollar and the euro.

What’s happening on the ground
Ukraine’s borders were reportedly under attack from Russian forces to the north in Belarus and the south from Crimea, according to the Ukrainian State Border Service.

Russian troops had attacked border units, patrol border and checkpoints with “artillery, heavy equipment and small arms,” the border service said.

The Russian military claimed Ukraine’s border service “did not provide any resistance” and claimed to have “suppressed” Ukraine’s air defenses. CNN was not able to immediately verify either of those claims.

CNN teams on the ground heard explosions in and near multiple Ukrainian cities, including Kyiv, the second largest city Kharkiv, Odessa, and distant firing from Zaporizhzhiya.

Ukraine Interior Minister adviser Gerashchenko tweeted that troops had landed in the southern city of Odessa and were crossing the border in Kharkiv, located in the country’s northeast. In a post on his Facebook page, he also said control centers such as airfields and military headquarters were being hit by shelling in Kyiv and Kharkiv, and that there was artillery fire along the border.

The Russian military released a statement Thursday claiming it was not targeting Ukrainian cities, saying “the civilian population is not at risk.” 

Local residents are seen refueling at a gas station in Mariupol, eastern Ukraine.
Local residents are seen refueling at a gas station in Mariupol, eastern Ukraine. Carlos Barria/Reuters
“The Russian Armed Forces are not launching any missile or artillery strikes on the cities of Ukraine. High-precision weapons destroy military infrastructure: military airfields, aviation, air defense facilities of the Armed Forces of Ukraine,” the statement read.

But despite the Russian military’s claims that civilians wouldn’t be targeted, many chose to leave the capital. Kyiv residents had previously been told to stay at home and pack a bag with necessities, in case they needed to leave abruptly.

Witnesses told CNN that subway stations had become improvised bunkers and were full of people, with supplies organized in groups.

Across the city, red arrows painted on walls indicate the locations of the nearest bomb shelters. The city first put them up after the war broke out in the east of the country in 2014, but they were recently repainted.

A local resident sits in a car as they pack to leave Mariupol, eastern Ukraine.
A local resident sits in a car as they pack to leave Mariupol, eastern Ukraine. Carlos Barria/Reuters
Before Putin’s address, Russia issued a notice banning civil aircraft from flight routes bordering northeastern Ukraine. Separately, Ukrainian aviation authorities issued a notice restricting Ukrainian airspace in the regions around Kyiv, Dnipro, Lviv, Odessa and Simferopol.

European aviation regulators warned civilian aircraft were at “high risk” near the Ukrainian border. “Air operators are reminded that this is now an active conflict zone,” said the European Union Aviation Safety Agency, known as EASA.

In an apparent escalation in cyberattacks on Ukrainian infrastructure, several key Ukrainian websites were down as of 3 a.m local time on Thursday (8 p.m. ET Wednesday), including those of Ukraine’s Foreign Ministry, Interior Ministry, the Security Service in Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Infrastructure, and the Ministry of Justice.

Military operation comes as UN Security Council meets
The launch of the military operation came as members of the UN Security Council met in New York to call for a peaceful resolution to the impending crisis.

In ordering troops to enter Ukraine, Putin had “delivered a message of war,” said US Ambassador to the UN Linda Thomas-Greenfield.

“This is a grave emergency. The council will need to act,” she said. “We will put a resolution on the table tomorrow.”


See Ukrainian ambassador's reaction as Russian counterpart defends Moscow's attacks
01:49 - Source: CNN
Her Ukrainian counterpart Sergiy Kyslytsya begged the Security Council to help stop a war, saying it was too late to speak about de-escalation.

“It is the responsibility of this body to stop the war,” Kyslytsya said. “So I call on every one of you to do everything possible to stop the war,” he added, looking around the room.

Permanent Representative of the Russian Federation to the UN Vasily Nebenzya said the aim of Russia’s military operation in Donbas was to protect locals who have been “suffering genocide” at the hands of the Ukrainian government for over eight years.

“The route of today’s crisis around Ukraine is the actions of Ukraine itself, who for many years were sabotaging its obligations under the Minsk package of measures,” said Nebenzya.

Source: CNN
Medan, Indonesia – The new year has got off to a wet start on the island of Sumatra in Indonesia after torrential rains displaced some more than 30,000 people and left two children dead, according to the country’s Disaster Mitigation Agency.

Heavy rain has pummelled parts of the western island including Jambi and Aceh provinces for days raising fears that the flooding will harm the local economy and lead to a spike in COVID-19 cases.

Muhammad Hatta says his village on the outskirts of the town of Lhoksukon in Aceh Province has been underwater since the beginning of the year, and there is little sign of respite.

Hatta, his wife and three sons managed to prevent the floodwaters from entering their home by blocking off their downstairs kitchen.

But while they have decided to stay put, they fear that the worst may be to come.

“We are more worried about what happens after the floodwaters subside,” Hatta told Al Jazeera.

“All the rice paddies in the area are underwater. The farmers were just about to harvest them, but crops usually die after three or four days of being completely submerged. The farmers will have lost everything.”

Aerial footage filmed by Hatta and seen by Al Jazeera showed impassable streets in and around his village, and homes submerged in milky brown water.


In addition to the ruined rice crop, Hatta says that day labourers in the area have also been unable to work due to the floods.

“The local economy has been destroyed,” he said.

The milky brown waters rose to the roof of buildings around the Aceh town of Lhoksukon 
Floodwaters have risen in Lhoksukon and surrounding villages in Aceh province, Indonesia,  since the start of the year [Supplied/Hamdani]
Parts of neighbouring Malaysia have also been inundated after heavy rains lashed the country, forcing thousands into temporary shelters. More than 50 people have died as a result of the floods across the country, which have affected the states of Selangor, Johor and Melaka, across the Strait of Malacca from Sumatra, particularly badly.

Hatta says the flooding occurs in the area every year and that the government needed to prevent it from happening again by clearing sediment from the surrounding rivers – making them deeper so that they no longer burst their banks following heavy rain.

Hamdani, the head of public relations of the North Aceh Regional Secretariat, told Al Jazeera that there were 32,854 people displaced across 16 districts in North Aceh after heavy rains carried surges of water downstream.

“Local residents have been sheltering with relatives, in mosques and prayer halls and in specially constructed emergency shelters,” he said.

On Sunday, North Aceh Regent Muhammad Thaib declared an official state of emergency in the regency as a result of the floods.

“We are working on logistics like making sure those displaced have enough food. For a few days it’s OK for people to eat instant noodles but after that we need to keep them healthy and feed them nutritious foods like tempeh, mung beans, grains and corn,” Hamdani said.

“We also need blankets for the children and babies as well as milk.”

Hamdani acknowledged that the floods were almost an annual event and said that the regional government was hoping the construction of the Keureuto Dam, slated for completion in 2023, would ease the problem. The dam will hold water from the Krueng Keureuto river and six of its tributaries.

In the meantime, the flooding comes at a particularly inopportune moment.

“COVID-19 numbers in North Aceh have been going down and I have had fewer patients coming to see me with serious symptoms in recent weeks,” Lhoksukon-based pulmonary specialist, Dr Indra Buana, told Al Jazeera.

Children stand in floodwaters in front of a wooden building with a rusted corrugated roof in Aceh
Children in the floodwaters in the villages around Lhoksukon. There are concerns about the spread of disease, including COVID-19 [Supplied/Rina Sarina]
Aceh has reported approximately 38,000 COVID-19 cases since the pandemic began and slightly more than 2,000 deaths, although it has barely registered any new cases or deaths in recent weeks.

But now, the doctor fears that the floods will cause a spate of medical conditions at the same time as the Omicron variant looms on the horizon.

“Floodwater is very dangerous,” he said. “If people inhale it they can drown or it can cause serious lung inflammation.”

“The wet and cold weather at this time of year also usually causes a rise in cases like asthma and upper respiratory tract infections.”

An added problem also comes from displaced residents fleeing their homes and sharing limited space in shelters or with family members where social distancing is difficult.

Aceh has one of the least vaccinated populations in Indonesia with just more than 1.2 million residents double vaccinated out of a population of more than 5.3 million, according to figures from the Ministry of Health.

“We are worried that there will be a spike in COVID-19 cases. It could be very dangerous if someone from outside the area who has COVID-19 visits the shelters and unwittingly infects everyone,” Dr Buana said.

“But at the same time we can’t prohibit people from bringing aid. “
Thursday, February 17, 2022 – A wave of a landslide caused by heavy rains caused massive casualties in the Brazilian city of Petrópolis, with the fatality count standing at 110 people. 

According to the Civil Defense of Rio, another 134 persons remain missing, and the continuous torrential rains that prompted the evacuation of another area in the city on Thursday may cause more casualties as the rainfall on Tuesday afternoon alone was greater than the historical average for the whole month of February.

Search and rescue crews were forced their way through sludge, searching for survivors amid the wreckage. The National Civil Defense stated it had saved 24 people but over 439 individuals had lost their houses.

Brazil's President Jair Bolsonaro, who was in Moscow when the landslides began on Tuesday before traveling to Hungary, is scheduled to visit Petrópolis on Friday. He had directed ministers and requested "urgent help" for the victims.

Source: CNN
North American automotive OEMs have made a powerful commitment to establish a domestic supply chain for the millions of electric-vehicle (EV) batteries that will be needed to meet their goal of converting at least half of the U.S. market to EVs by 2030.

Since the beginning of last year, nearly a dozen big-ticket EV battery plant projects involving capital expenditures of more than $1 billion have had ground broken or been announced, with at least two more expected later this year. Cumulatively, Detroit’s Big Three have initiated battery assembly plant projects totaling $17 billion.

Unfortunately, in the near term, most of the components used to make EV batteries at these new battery assembly plants — including lithium battery cells, anodes, cathodes, separators, and battery packs — will be coming from overseas, with more than 90 percent of component production still based in Asia.

The only category of EV battery components with a healthy supply of domestic producers currently are battery management systems (BMS) and thermal management systems (TMS), software systems that ensure safe charging, monitor individual battery cells, regulate temperature, and control demand discharge under a wide range of driving scenarios and atmospheric conditions.

Most of the BMS and TMS systems are still made where they were invented, in the United States, with major suppliers including Leclanché North America in Anderson, IN (BMS); Infinion, San Jose, CA (BMS); Nuvation Energy, Sunnydale, CA (BMS); Dana, Maumee, OH (TMS); VOSS Automotive, Fort Wayne, IN (TMS); and Hanon Systems, Novi, MI (TMS). But as electric-vehicle production ramps up around the world — with General Motors, which was supplanted by Toyota in 2021 as the top selling auto brand in the U.S. (the first time GM has been dethroned as the U.S. sales leader in nearly 90 years), boldly declaring it will cease production of gasoline-powered engines in 2035 — supply-chain shortages may be looming as early as next year for the most critical EV battery components, lithium-ion battery cells.

South Korea-based LG Energy Solution (also known as LG Chem) currently is the largest global supplier of lithium battery cells for EVs, with two lithium cell suppliers in China (CATV and BYD) ranked second and third, respectively. Six of the 10 largest global lithium battery cell producers — and 16 of the top 20 — are in China, three (LG Chem, SK Innovation, and Samsung SDI) are based in South Korea, and one (Panasonic) is based in Japan. But as this is being written, a new contender for the global lithium battery cell production crown is about to enter the ring with these heavyweights.

Tesla Prepares to Put the Pedal to the Metal on Battery Cell Production
Tesla, which partnered with Panasonic to make lithium-ion battery cells at its EV battery gigafactory in Nevada, is busy making contingency plans for an anticipated logjam in global battery cell supplies, which Tesla Founder Elon Musk has predicted will be the auto industry’s next major supply chain crunch after the global semiconductor shortage eases.

Musk’s plan to deal with Tesla’s battery cell supply needs has the boldness we’ve come to expect from a 21st-century Edison who has launched an industry leader in electric vehicles and NASA’s leading producer of space rockets. Tesla is about to become one of the world’s largest producers of lithium battery cells, and it will soon unveil full-scale battery production lines at three of its gigafactories (on three different continents) deploying a new high-energy, lower-cost battery cell design it says is better than anything currently on the market.

Tesla has begun producing its new 4680 series high-energy battery cells this year at what the company calls a “pilot plant” (with about 10 GWh of production capacity) in Fremont, CA. Early next year, Tesla will launch large-scale (100 GWh capacity) battery cell production lines for 4680 batteries at its new Gigafactories in Austin, TX; Berlin; and Shanghai. The three mega-plants also will build battery assembly packs and assemble completed 4680 EV batteries. (With an average EV battery pack currently storing about 60KWh of energy, 100 GWh of production capacity can supply EV batteries for up to 600,000 vehicles per year.)

Tesla’s 4680 battery features a tabless cylindrical cell in a much bigger format than current lithium-ion cells, generating six times more power than the cells the company has been producing in Nevada with Panasonic, with each cell having five times the energy storage capacity of previous designs while significantly reducing the cost of production. Tesla says fully charged 4860 batteries will have a driving range 16 percent longer than EV batteries currently on the market.

Despite a commitment from Panasonic to build 4680 battery cells at a new $700 million plant in Japan, Musk also has been busy this year lining up 4680 production commitments from battery cell suppliers making lithium cells for his EV vehicle competitors. Musk first sounded the alarm about a potential global lithium battery cell crunch in a tweet on Tesla’s “Battery Day” on Sept. 21, 2020, when the company unveiled details about its 4680 batteries: “We intend to increase, not reduce, battery cell purchases from Panasonic, LG, and CATV and possibly other partners, too. However, even with our cell suppliers going at maximum speed, we still foresee significant shortages in 2022 and beyond unless we take action ourselves,” he said.

More recently, Musk has said lithium battery cell demand will not exceed supplies this year due to industry-wide assembly line production output reductions first caused by the pandemic and now due to the global shortage of semiconductors.

The Biden Administration has identified development of a domestic lithium-ion battery supply chain as a strategic goal as well as an imperative in the effort to mitigate the impact of climate change. New rules of origin under the USMCA (which replaced the North American Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA) will give automakers another strong reason to localize the battery supply chain in North America. In order to qualify for tariff-free trade under the terms of the USMCA, the percentage of “core parts” in a vehicle —including EV batteries, which represent about 40 percent of the value of an EV — that must be produced “locally” (meaning in the U.S., Canada or Mexico) is rising from the NAFTA rate of 62.5 percent to 70–75 percent by the end of next year.

Recycling of EV Battery Raw Materials Ramps Up
The best news on the domestic EV battery supply chain front, aside from the huge investments in new battery assembly facilities, is that the U.S. automotive industry — backed by a surprising new champion of at least one form of renewable energy — is moving quickly to create a new supply chain for the critical raw materials used to make EV batteries, primarily lithium, nickel, cobalt, manganese, and copper foil. The new raw materials supply chain for EV batteries won’t rely on metals from mines around the world: it will come from recycled EV battery materials collected and separated in new recycling centers that are going up at a rapid clip in the U.S. and Canada.

Australia is the world’s largest producer of raw lithium, extracting 40,000 metric tons of the light, white metal in 2020, followed by Chile (20,600), China (14,000), and Argentina (6,200); most of the world’s cobalt comes from a region in Africa straddling Zambia and Zimbabwe. While there are projects under way to expand relatively small U.S. lithium mines in Nevada and North Carolina (and lithium mines in Newfoundland and Labrador in Canada), and to revive the only known U.S. cobalt deposit at the aptly named Blackbird Mine in Salmon, ID, a new domestic supply chain for recycled EV battery materials is being spearheaded by several new partnerships that aim to create a bevy of recycling centers throughout North America.

Redwood Materials, based in Carson, NV, is building a closed-loop EV battery recycling supply chain for Ford to recycle nickel, cobalt, lithium, and copper. It announced it will build a battery materials manufacturing plant that will produce 100 gigawatts/year of cathode-active materials by 2025 and aims to provide materials to power five million EVs by 2030.

Koch Strategic Platforms (KSP), one of six subsidiaries of Koch Industries’ Investments Group, is investing $100 million in Toronto-based Li-Cycle to build new EV battery recycling centers in North America. KSP’s investment in Li-Cycle comes on the heels of a $100 million investment by KSP in zinc-based battery storage maker Eos Energy Enterprises; KSP also is backing next-gen battery cell producer FREYR (based in Norway) and e-mobility company REE Automotive.

Li-Cycle extracts cobalt, nickel, lithium, and other materials from used batteries, defective material or scrap from other manufacturing facilities, then recycles it into usable material. Through a hub-and-spoke model, Li-Cycle’s central recycling facility is in Rochester, NY, with smaller facilities in Ontario. The company is building new recycling centers in Tuscaloosa, AL, and Gilbert, AZ.

Koch Industries’ new enthusiasm for renewable energy in the form of recycled EV battery materials stands in stark contrast to its decades-long opposition to wind energy as an oil and gas conglomerate based in the Kansas. For years, the Koch brothers used their considerable lobbying power to lean on the KS state legislature in opposition to tax credits for wind turbine installations in the Sunflower State. Eventually, market forces took hold and Kansas has now become the state with highest percentage of electricity generated by wind power.

Announcing his company’s new partnership with KSP, Li-Cycle Co-Founder and CEO Ajay Kochhar said that regardless of Koch Industries’ reputation and history, the chance to partner with KSP was a “huge opportunity.” Besides the direct investment, Kochhar said Li-Cycle will benefit from KSP’s operational expertise; Koch also will help Li-Cycle construct, test, and ship modular facilities for future expansions.

Retriev Technologies and Heritage Battery Recycling recently merged their battery management and recycling businesses, creating the largest lithium-ion battery recycler in North America, which will operate under the Retrieve brand.

American Battery Technology Co. is building a $39 million EV battery recycling facility in Fernley, NV, near Reno. ABTC also will build a hazardous waste storage facility at the Tahoe Reno Industrial Center in McCarran, NV, adjacent to Tesla’s battery gigafactory.

The establishment of a domestic, sustainable supply chain for EV battery raw materials is seen as an essential first step in reshoring — or, more accurately in this case, building from scratch — a start-to-finish domestic supply chain for EV battery components. However, the conventional wisdom about EV raw materials may soon by upended by a technological breakthrough from — you guessed it, Tesla — which reportedly is developing lithium-sulfur cathodes that will eliminate the need for metals including cobalt and nickel, while greatly increasing the energy storage capacity of batteries.

Battery Assembly in U.S.
Since the beginning of last year, just about every month has been punctuated with the announcement of a major new battery assembly facility in the U.S., with a crescendo of new projects in the second half of the year. Most of the deals have involved partnerships with leading global battery cell producers, including LG Chem and SK Innovation, both of South Korea, which along with Samsung, Panasonic, and China’s CATL (the world’s largest producer of lithium-ion battery cells) form the top tier of lithium cell makers.

In twin announcements in September, Ford made an $11.4 billion commitment with battery partner SK Innovation to build what the automaker called a “vertically integrated ecosystem” for electric vehicles and EV batteries at new facilities in Tennessee and central Kentucky. Ford will build a $5.6 billion, 3,600-acre mega-campus called Blue Oval City in Stanton, TN, that will include a new assembly plant for electric F-Series pickup trucks, a BlueOvalSK battery plant, and a recycling center. Ford says the campus will “reimagine how vehicles and batteries are made,” creating 6,000 new jobs. SK Innovation also is building a new $2.6 billion EV battery assembly plant in Commerce, GA, in Jackson County to supply other automakers.

Ford simultaneously announced that Glendale, KY, in Hardin County will be the site of a new $5.8 billion BlueOvalSK Battery Park featuring two new battery assembly plants that will supply Ford’s North American vehicle assembly plants with locally assembled batteries that will power next-generation electric Ford and Lincoln vehicles, also creating 6,000 new jobs. Ford says that its global EV plan will require at least 240 GWh of battery cell capacity by 2030. Ford has pledged that the new plants in KY and TN will be designed to be carbon-neutral with zero waste to landfill once fully operational in 2026.

General Motors’ EV battery assembly joint venture with LG Chem, known as Ultium, announced in 2021 that it will build three new EV battery assembly pants: a $2.3 billion facility in Lordstown, OH; a $2.3 billion plant in Spring Hill, TN; and a $2.6 billion plant in Lansing, MI.

Stellantis Fiat Chrysler is planning to build two EV battery assembly plants, one partnering with LG Chem and the other partnering with Samsung, at sites to be announced later this year. According to reports, Toyota North America is planning a new U.S. battery assembly facility in a partnership with Tsusho America.

Despite all of the new U.S. battery assembly plants in the pipeline — and regardless of how big a splash Tesla makes with its full production lines for lithium battery cells — the overall global balance of power in the EV battery supply chain is not expected to shift dramatically between now and 2030. EV industry analysts projected last year that lithium battery production capacity in Asia will increase to 1,624 GWh by 2030, more than seven times larger than the projected EV battery capacity in North America.
