Monday, September 26, 2022 – Officials confirm that at least 15 people were killed and 24 injured, when a gunman opened fire at a school in central Russia. Among the victims were 11 children, at the school of a population of about 1,000 pupils in the city of Izhevsk. The gunman, who happened to be a former student of the school killed himself at the scene.

From the video posted online, there was panic inside the building where the shooting took place, where children and adults were seen running along the corridors. From other footage, blood was seen on the floor of the classroom and a bullet hole in a window, with children crouching underneath desks.

According to Russia’s investigative committee, eleven children and four adults were killed, including two security guards and two teachers. Of the 24 that were injured, only two of them were not children.

Source: BBC
Wednesday, July 13, 2022 – The President of Sri Lanka, Gotabaya Rajapaksa, hours before his resignation, fled the country to the Maldives on a military jet. This results from anti-government protesters taking over his presidential palace and office.

As protesters continued storming government offices, the Prime Minister, Ranil Wickremesinghe, declared a state of emergency after the President’s departure. Wickremesinghe has been appointed the acting President by Rajapaksa, A Sri Lankan official said.

Sri Lanka’s air force made a statement to confirm Rajapaksa’s departure on Wednesday after he invoked executive powers to enable his escape. “Under the provisions of the constitution and on a request by the government, the Sri Lanka air force provided a plane early today to fly the president, his wife, and two security officials to the Maldives.” They arrived in Male, the capital of Maldives, at 3 am.

Source: The Guardian 
Sunday, September 4, 2022 – The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denys Shmyhal, has thanked Germany for its solidarity in the face of the Russian invasion and calls for more weapons. This is seen as a sign of easing the tension between Berlin and Kyiv.

On Sunday, German chancellor Olaf Scholz welcomed Denys Shmyhal with military honors in Berlin, as he is the most senior Ukrainian official to visit the German capital in months since Kyiv accused the European Union's biggest economy of doing too little.

After the meeting with Steinmeier, Shmyhal, in a tweet, said the matter discussed in the meeting was the military situation, strengthening sanctions, and the need to provide weapons for Ukraine.

Before his trip, Shmyhal told German media, "Germany has made huge progress in supporting Ukraine with weapons." He also added that Kyiv needed more from Berlin, which includes “modern combat tanks” such as the Leopard 2.

Source: The Guardian
FlexGen, a battery storage startup based in Durham, has raised $100 million from investors, including the Dutch energy company Vitol.

Why it matters: Better forms of battery storage are needed so that energy grids can use power from clean sources, like wind turbines and solar panels.

What it does: The startup, which employs around 150 people, doesn't manufacture batteries, but helps integrate them into the traditional power grid and makes software to optimize their use.

Its customers include North Carolina's Electric Cooperatives and Southern California Edison.
What they're saying: "Solar and wind are terrific in that they're clean and green, but they happen to be intermittent," FlexGen CEO Kelcy Pegler told Axios. "The sun's not always shining and the wind’s not always blowing."

"Batteries provide a really great solution to making sure that we can bridge the gaps and make tomorrow's power of solar and wind more available."
What's next: FlexGen is planning to open a new innovation and research center in Durham this year, which will allow it to showcase emerging battery technologies to customers.

Pegler said the company picked Durham because "it's such a great pool of intellect."
Zoom out: FlexGen is the latest local tech company to bring in a large round of funding, joining the likes of Epic Games, JupiterOne and Teamworks. Funding in the Triangle has remained strong this year, despite a national pullback in venture capital investment.