Medan, Indonesia – The new year has got off to a wet start on the island of Sumatra in Indonesia after torrential rains displaced some more than 30,000 people and left two children dead, according to the country’s Disaster Mitigation Agency.

Heavy rain has pummelled parts of the western island including Jambi and Aceh provinces for days raising fears that the flooding will harm the local economy and lead to a spike in COVID-19 cases.

Muhammad Hatta says his village on the outskirts of the town of Lhoksukon in Aceh Province has been underwater since the beginning of the year, and there is little sign of respite.

Hatta, his wife and three sons managed to prevent the floodwaters from entering their home by blocking off their downstairs kitchen.

But while they have decided to stay put, they fear that the worst may be to come.

“We are more worried about what happens after the floodwaters subside,” Hatta told Al Jazeera.

“All the rice paddies in the area are underwater. The farmers were just about to harvest them, but crops usually die after three or four days of being completely submerged. The farmers will have lost everything.”

Aerial footage filmed by Hatta and seen by Al Jazeera showed impassable streets in and around his village, and homes submerged in milky brown water.


In addition to the ruined rice crop, Hatta says that day labourers in the area have also been unable to work due to the floods.

“The local economy has been destroyed,” he said.

The milky brown waters rose to the roof of buildings around the Aceh town of Lhoksukon 
Floodwaters have risen in Lhoksukon and surrounding villages in Aceh province, Indonesia,  since the start of the year [Supplied/Hamdani]
Parts of neighbouring Malaysia have also been inundated after heavy rains lashed the country, forcing thousands into temporary shelters. More than 50 people have died as a result of the floods across the country, which have affected the states of Selangor, Johor and Melaka, across the Strait of Malacca from Sumatra, particularly badly.

Hatta says the flooding occurs in the area every year and that the government needed to prevent it from happening again by clearing sediment from the surrounding rivers – making them deeper so that they no longer burst their banks following heavy rain.

Hamdani, the head of public relations of the North Aceh Regional Secretariat, told Al Jazeera that there were 32,854 people displaced across 16 districts in North Aceh after heavy rains carried surges of water downstream.

“Local residents have been sheltering with relatives, in mosques and prayer halls and in specially constructed emergency shelters,” he said.

On Sunday, North Aceh Regent Muhammad Thaib declared an official state of emergency in the regency as a result of the floods.

“We are working on logistics like making sure those displaced have enough food. For a few days it’s OK for people to eat instant noodles but after that we need to keep them healthy and feed them nutritious foods like tempeh, mung beans, grains and corn,” Hamdani said.

“We also need blankets for the children and babies as well as milk.”

Hamdani acknowledged that the floods were almost an annual event and said that the regional government was hoping the construction of the Keureuto Dam, slated for completion in 2023, would ease the problem. The dam will hold water from the Krueng Keureuto river and six of its tributaries.

In the meantime, the flooding comes at a particularly inopportune moment.

“COVID-19 numbers in North Aceh have been going down and I have had fewer patients coming to see me with serious symptoms in recent weeks,” Lhoksukon-based pulmonary specialist, Dr Indra Buana, told Al Jazeera.

Children stand in floodwaters in front of a wooden building with a rusted corrugated roof in Aceh
Children in the floodwaters in the villages around Lhoksukon. There are concerns about the spread of disease, including COVID-19 [Supplied/Rina Sarina]
Aceh has reported approximately 38,000 COVID-19 cases since the pandemic began and slightly more than 2,000 deaths, although it has barely registered any new cases or deaths in recent weeks.

But now, the doctor fears that the floods will cause a spate of medical conditions at the same time as the Omicron variant looms on the horizon.

“Floodwater is very dangerous,” he said. “If people inhale it they can drown or it can cause serious lung inflammation.”

“The wet and cold weather at this time of year also usually causes a rise in cases like asthma and upper respiratory tract infections.”

An added problem also comes from displaced residents fleeing their homes and sharing limited space in shelters or with family members where social distancing is difficult.

Aceh has one of the least vaccinated populations in Indonesia with just more than 1.2 million residents double vaccinated out of a population of more than 5.3 million, according to figures from the Ministry of Health.

“We are worried that there will be a spike in COVID-19 cases. It could be very dangerous if someone from outside the area who has COVID-19 visits the shelters and unwittingly infects everyone,” Dr Buana said.

“But at the same time we can’t prohibit people from bringing aid. “
US President Joe Biden has warned there is a "distinct possibility" Russia might invade Ukraine next month, the White House says.
Russia meanwhile says it sees "little ground for optimism" in resolving the crisis after the US rejected Russia's main demands.
The build-up of tens of thousands of Russian troops on Ukraine's borders in recent weeks has stoked fears of an invasion.
Russia denies it is planning an attack.
The US president made the comments in a telephone conversation with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Thursday.
"President Biden said that there is a distinct possibility that the Russians could invade Ukraine in February," White House National Security Council spokesperson Emily Horne said.
"He has said this publicly and we have been warning about this for months."
During their talk, President Biden "reaffirmed the readiness of the United States along with its allies and partners to respond decisively if Russia further invades Ukraine", a White House statement said.
Mr Zelensky said they "discussed recent diplomatic efforts on de-escalation and agreed on joint actions for the future".
Axios, citing unnamed sources, suggested the two disagreed on how imminent the threat was. Some military experts suggest Russia may be waiting for the ground in Ukraine to freeze so they can move in heavy equipment.
Another important phone call will take place on Friday, when French President Emmanuel Macron speaks directly with Russia's Vladimir Putin.
If Russia were to invade Ukraine, it would not be the first time. Russia annexed Ukraine's southern Crimea peninsula in 2014. It is also backing rebels who seized large swathes of the eastern Donbas region soon afterwards, and some 14,000 people have died in fighting there.
Also on Thursday, the US threatened to halt the opening of a key pipeline that would send Russian gas to Western Europe, if Russia invades Ukraine.
Nord Stream 2 would run from Russia to Germany, and on Thursday officials in Berlin said the project could face sanctions if Russia attacks.
Western allies say they will target Russia's economy if it invades, and the latest comments signal a hardening of their stance.
The 1,225km (760-mile) pipeline took five years to build and cost $11bn (£8bn). The energy project, which would run under the Baltic Sea, is designed to double Russia's gas exports to Germany.
But as yet it has not started operating, as regulators said in November it does not comply with German law and suspended its approval.
Russia denies any plans to invade but last month made wide-ranging security demands from the West, including that Ukraine never be allowed to join the Nato military alliance.
The US rejected this key demand, while offering what it called a "serious diplomatic path forward" to Moscow.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Thursday that the US response left "little ground for optimism", but added that "there always are prospects for continuing a dialogue, it's in the interests of both us and the Americans".
The proposals will not be made public, but US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the document made their "core principles" clear, including Ukraine's sovereignty and its right to choose to be part of security alliances such as Nato.
Russia's foreign minister Sergei Lavrov said the formal response does not address Russia's "main concern" about the alliance's expansion.
"Did I just survive a massacre?" asked a young Sudanese man when he answered my call not long after security forces had opened fire on protesters in downtown Khartoum.

Known by his Twitter name Bashy, he told how one of seven people had died last Monday afternoon in the capital.
"I was filming the protesters and walking when a bullet penetrated his chest; he died in front of me. That could have been me!"
In his mid-twenties, and usually with a smile on his face, Bashy has been protesting on the streets for the past three months.
Like many of his contemporaries, he is furious that the military seized power last October, just over two years into an agreement between the generals and a civilian coalition to share power.

Life had been improving and the economic crisis easing as civilian Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok brought Sudan in from the cold following sanctions imposed on the country during the long rule of Omar al-Bashir, accused of using the country to sponsor terrorism.
AFP Sudanese buy bread from a bakery in the capital Khartoum - 11 October 2021AFP
The economic gains of the two-year power-sharing transition have been forfeited by the coup
The former president's military allies ousted him in April 2019 in the wake of mass protests, but they then showed their reluctance to share power with those on the streets when they turned their guns on them in a devastating massacre two months later.
The outcry that followed forced the generals to agree to the transition - but as many suspected, the military was never happy with the arrangement, and the latest coup, they say, has proved them right.
'Vicious cycle'
Bashy, who has been on the front lines of the recent demonstrations documenting the rallies and marches on his social media feeds, says those on the neighbourhood committees co-ordinating the fightback on the streets are mainly young.

AFP Young people play football in the Sahafa neighbourhood in the south of Khartoum, Sudan - 1 November 2021AFP
More than half of Sudan's population have largely only known life under Omar al-Bashir
In fact it is estimated that 61% of Sudan's population is under the age of 25 and they are fed up with what Bashy terms "strong-man rule".
It is a generational conflict with the young wanting a more equitable, peaceful, and democratic future.
"We are different to previous generations," says Bashy.
"We want to stop the cycle, this vicious cycle of military coups and authoritarianism. That is why we protest - because we wish to see the end of this cycle."

Loyalists reinstated
The protesters feel they have legitimacy on their side - and the junta has indeed been dealt a blow by the resignation earlier this month of Mr Hamdok.
In the aftermath of the coup he was put under house arrest - but then signed a new deal with the generals - something his civilian coalition, the Forces for Freedom and Change (FFC), rejected.
Getty Images Gen Abdel Fattah al-Burhan in December 2021Getty Images
Gen Abdel Fattah al-Burhan's attempt to bring the civilian PM on board has backfired
He only lasted six weeks before realising he could not work without the political backing of the FFC.
Some of the economic reforms he brought in - applauded by the international community - were painful for everyone, but his attempts to dismantle the old guard's hold on the economy also ruffled feathers.

Indeed, this week, Sudan's military ruler Gen Abdel Fattah al-Burhan finally appointed a caretaker administration, which includes some of those Bashir loyalists, to steer the country to elections.
Nidal, whose name has been changed to protect her identity, is a seasoned protester - first taking to the streets during the Arab spring when people began to brave the streets.
AFP Sudanese demonstrators carry posters of killed protesters in Khartoum - 30 December 2021AFP
More than 70 people have died and thousands have been injured since October
She believes the military's harsh treatment of the protesters - more than 70 have died so far - is forcing those organising the demonstrations to become more tactical - or more cohesive.
"You can sense the military is doing us a favour - the more of us they kill, helps us the people to come together, reshape our nationalist sentiment and foster a new patriotism for building a new country."

Since independence the armed forces have monopolised any sense of patriotism.
But their actions - in particular those of the former paramilitary unit, the Rapid Support Forces led by Mohamed Hamdan "Hemeti" Dagolo - and their role in the massacre of June 2019 means much of the respect they were once afforded has been lost by young Sudanese.
For Nidal, the demonstrations have had a devastating effect on her family: one of her 18-year-old cousins was shot dead by soldiers in December.
When I spoke to her late one evening this week she had just been to various barricades in Khartoum to round up her many other cousins to check they were all safe.
Yet the situation has just made them all the more determined - because they feel they can really make a difference.

"I am ready to die," she told me.
Trust broken
In mid-January, the junta announced that it was setting up a counter-terrorism force to deal with the security challenges posed by the protests - which are also hitting the economy.
Viewing peaceful protesters as terrorists is seen by many as taking a leaf out of the Bashir-era rule book.
EPA Protesters by bricks at a barricade in Khartoum, Sudan - January 2022EPA
The barricades are organised by neighbourhood committees - and some are blocking key roads
In their statements, the authorities note how many policemen are injured on duty during the nationwide protests - with little regard to the death of demonstrators.

This week, the death of a police brigadier general has been blamed on the protesters, but activists dispute this and say it is being used as an excuse to unleash yet more force.
And this week's violence came after an Al Jazeera channel that had been carrying live feeds of the demonstrations and rallies was banned.
The crackdown on media freedoms has become unrelenting: journalists have been beaten and assaulted, media offices attacked and international media barred.
There has been a flurry of diplomatic activity to break the stalemate, including a consultation process launched by the UN.
But many Sudanese have little faith in the UN, given it backed the failed November pact entered into by Mr Hamdok.

And the protesters just want the military out of any government as they feel the generals are not to be trusted.
"No negotiations, no partnership, no legitimacy" is the rallying cry of the current pro-democracy movement.
Against this backdrop, the Friends of Sudan met this week to try and hammer out a solution.
This group includes the US, the UK, European states and junta allies Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.
Yet both Bashy and Nidal sound unimpressed by such efforts - and they agree the counter-terror force will not cow them.

"We are world class in peaceful resistance, Monday's massacre will not deter us," Bashy said.
"We are not letting them take our blood, sweat and tears and use it for their own gains."
Source: BBC
A silver sedan rolled off of the General Motors assembly line in Spring Hill, Tennessee, last Monday that represented the $35 billion bet the company is making on the future inside the chassis of its most storied brand.

It was GM’s first all-electric Cadillac Lyriq, launched nine months earlier than scheduled and signaling that the automaker is charging full-speed-ahead on its transition to electric vehicles, despite tumultuous times.

Russia’s war on Ukraine has roiled global commodities markets—including those for nickel and other metals used in EV batteries—and laid bare how vulnerable the world is to price shocks in the metals essential to the EV future. That volatility comes on top of the pandemic-triggered supply chain woes that have dogged the auto industry for months. President Joe Biden’s pledge to catalyze the electric vehicle transition has been only partly fulfilled, with consumer EV tax credits, much of the money for charging stations and other assistance stalled with the rest of his Build Back Better package in Congress. 

Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), the linchpin for any effort to revive the legislation, this month said he is particularly reluctant to invest in an EV future because of U.S. dependence on imported metals for electric transportation. “I don’t want to have to be standing in line waiting for a battery for my vehicle, because we’re now dependent on a foreign supply chain,” Manchin said at the annual CERAWeek energy conference in Houston.

But last week, automakers, the Biden administration and U.S. trading partners and allies were doubling down on their commitment to vehicle electrification—not only to address climate change but because of concerns about energy insecurity in a world reliant on oil for transportation. Skyrocketing prices at gasoline pumps have made clear that U.S. drivers are not insulated from spikes in the global oil market, even though the United States is producing more oil domestically than ever.

Automakers are embarking on an array of strategies to secure supply of the critical minerals they will need for electric vehicles, including alternative battery chemistries, investment in new processing plants and deals with suppliers. Meanwhile, the United States and the 30 other member nations of the International Energy Agency last week launched a critical minerals security program. That could eventually include steps such as the stockpiling of metals needed for EVs and other renewable energy applications, just as IEA nations have committed since the 1970s to hold strategic stockpiles of oil. The IEA meeting participants also discussed a greater focus on systematic recycling of metals.

“We don’t want supply-chain bottlenecks to prevent us from being able to electrify the transportation sector,” said U.S. Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm, after the IEA’s annual ministerial meeting in Paris on Thursday. “Making sure that we’ve got sources for those critical minerals that are sustainably extracted and processed is a big part of what the going-forward work will be of the countries here.”

Nickel Price Spike Rattles EV World
The Russia-Ukraine conflict has brought to light the risk for the EV future in the upheaval in global metal markets. On March 8, the price of nickel, which averaged about $18,000 per metric ton in 2021, shot up an unprecedented 250 percent in a little more than 24 hours to more than $100,000. Chaos broke out on the London Metal Exchange, the main commodities market for globally traded industrial metals, and the exchange halted trading for a week and took the highly unusual step of canceling billions of dollars worth of trades.

Since then, trading in nickel has resumed, with the price easing somewhat, but still volatile and about 50 percent above 2021 levels. The financial newspaper Barron’s reported that the price it tracks of a basket of EV battery metals is up 64 percent so far in 2022, theoretically raising the sticker price of an EV by as much as $2,000. The world’s biggest EV maker, Tesla, applied price increases to all versions of its vehicles in the United States, and CEO Elon Musk noted on Twitter that the company was seeing significant inflation in raw materials costs.

Nickel is a key metal for EV batteries, even though the power packs are typically described as “lithium” batteries. Lithium ions in liquid electrolyte move back and forth between the battery’s positive and negative sides as EV batteries charge and discharge. But the go-to battery formulations for EVs contain more nickel than lithium, because nickel provides the energy density that allows EVs to travel far on a single charge. And long range is a quality that automakers believe that U.S. consumers especially demand. The batteries that Tesla has been using for its Model 3 vehicles in North America are nickel-cobalt-aluminum oxide, which, according to analysis by BloombergNEF, are 70 to 80 percent nickel by weight, and 10 to 11 percent lithium.

But nickel was a problematic metal even before the market pressure triggered by the Russia-Ukraine crisis. The United States produces less than 1 percent of the world’s nickel, all from one facility, the Eagle Mine on Michigan’s Upper Peninsula. There are no processing facilities in the United States, so Eagle Mine nickel concentrate is exported to Canada and overseas, according to the U.S. Geological Survey, which tracks supplies of strategic metals.

Russia produces about 11 percent of the world’s nickel, and its sulfur-rich ore yields the high  grade Class 1 nickel needed for EV batteries. But the processing of that metal can be highly polluting. Russia is the source of 20 percent of the world’s Class 1 nickel, and its biggest producer, Norilsk Nickel, has been positioning itself to become a major EV supplier, initiating a multibillion program last year to clean up longstanding pollution at its mines and smelters in the Arctic.

After the war broke out, NATO nations refrained from sanctioning Norilsk Nickel or its oligarch chairman, Vladimir Potanin, as the trans-Atlantic allies sought to avoid moves that would shock the global economy. But the private sector and markets were spooked anyway, much as oil markets were, despite initial efforts by the United States and Europe to avoid sanctioning Russian oil. Germany’s BASF, a major EV battery producer, announced it would fulfill existing contracts with Norilsk Nickel but not pursue any further business with the Russian company, which had been one of its major suppliers.

Traders began factoring in the potential loss of Russian nickel on the world market, and the run on nickel turned into a stampede, as a Chinese tycoon who had built a massive short position in the metal was temporarily unable to cover billions of dollars in losses. The short seller was able to extract himself from the squeeze by reaching a deal with his lenders, but the London Metal Exchange faces lingering questions and possible litigation over its actions to stem the mayhem. 

The nickel upheaval comes at a pivotal time for electric vehicles, which in 2021 saw global sales more than double to 6.6 million, accounting for close to 9 percent of total sales and tripling their market share from two years earlier, according to the International Energy Agency. Now a war and commodities volatility, in addition to lingering pandemic-related supply woes, mean a bumpy road ahead for automakers, just as they are seeking to accelerate their move to all-electric.

An All-Electric Cadillac, and a Battery Plan
GM touted the unveiling of its Cadillac Lyriq as a milestone on its journey to an all-electric lineup by 2035, a pledge the carmaker made the week after Biden took office. “Today marks a new era for Cadillac, because we flip the switch on the transition to a fully-electric lineup for the flagship brand of General Motors,” said GM president Mark Reuss as he showcased the car beneath a “Made in Tennessee” banner. “This vehicle is another step on the path to EV leadership for us.” GM plans to invest $35 billion in its EV program between 2020 and 2025. 

But many of the questions Reuss fielded in his round of press interviews on the Lyriq focused on nickel and the uncertainties over other global commodities.

“We’re doing everything we can to get the raw materials and the supply chains in place, which we have for things like nickel and lithium,” Reuss said in an interview with Bloomberg News. “The unfortunate circumstance of the war has shone a light on some of those things.”

But Reuss said that the company has long been focused on ensuring that it has a large and diverse chain of suppliers. “We work hard on that every single day, regardless of what the geopolitical condition is,” he said. “It’s never safe. It’s never complete.”

The Spring Hill plant, which once was the site of GM’s Saturn operations, now is a showcase for how the company is managing the challenges of EV battery materials supplies. The Lyriq will use the new Ultium battery, a joint venture of GM and South Korea’s LG Energy Solution. Ultium batteries will cost 40 percent less than the batteries that have been used in the Chevrolet Bolt, and require 70 percent less cobalt, GM says. Cobalt also has been a problematic metal in the EV supply chain, with 70 percent of global supplies coming from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where cobalt mining is  rife with human rights abuses, with tens of thousands of children employed in harsh conditions to extract the metal.

GM is beginning construction of a new $2.3 billion Ultium battery plant at Spring Hill to supply the Lyriq and other EV models that will be produced there. Another Ultium plant is scheduled to go online in Lordstown, Ohio, later this year. Currently, Ultium cells are manufactured in South Korea and shipped to a production facility in Michigan to be assembled into battery packs and sent to the Spring Hill vehicle assembly plant. GM’s goal is for the majority of its Ultium battery to be sourced, processed or manufactured in North America by 2025, the company said.

GM and Ultium also are working with Li-Cycle, a Canadian-based recycling venture, with a goal of developing a process to recycle battery materials, including cobalt, nickel, lithium, graphite, copper, manganese and aluminum, 95 percent of which GM said can be used in the production of new batteries or in other industries.

Losing Nickel, and Possibly EV Range 
Automakers also are looking more seriously at EV battery formulations that don’t require either nickel or cobalt, even though it may mean some sacrifice in driving range. Already, lithium iron phosphate (LFP) batteries are widely used in electric vehicles in China. They are lower cost, faster charging, and have a better safety profile than nickel-cobalt formulations, even though they currently offer less driving range.

Last fall, Tesla reportedly began offering Model 3 reservation holders in the United States a choice of switching to LFP batteries instead of the usual nickel-cobalt-aluminum oxide cells. The carmaker told investors it soon would be switching the battery chemistry in all of its standard-range electric vehicles to LFP.

Rivian, the electric truck start-up backed by Amazon and Ford, announced earlier this month that it also would switch to LFP cells for its standard-level vehicles, while offering high-nickel chemistry for its longer-range vehicles. The initial announcement touched off a minor brouhaha among customers who had already locked in orders with Rivian, and now found themselves faced with the choice of switching to LFP or maintaining the longer-range, high-nickel battery packs at a higher price. “We wrongly assumed pre-order customers would be open to reconfiguring,” said RJ Scaringe, Rivian’s founder and CEO, at the company’s earnings call on Mar. 10. Scaringe said the company would honor the original pricing and battery configurations for the pre-orders.

But going forward, Scaringe said, the company expected volatility in the metals markets to be one of the ordinary business risks that need to be managed.

“We hope the inflation in nickel pricing very recently is short-lived,” he said. “But the reality is there’s going to continue to be movements around commodity pricing… We’re developing a portfolio of battery solutions,” including LFP batteries.

Not only automakers, but governments, too, are grappling with the issue of metals availability as they seek to accelerate the transition to electric vehicles. The Biden administration’s roadmap for deployment of lithium batteries released last year included elimination of nickel and cobalt in lithium batteries. 

And the International Energy Agency, which was originally established by oil-consuming nations in the 1970s to increase energy security in the wake of the Arab oil embargo, announced last week that it will include as part of its mission maintaining secure supplies of metals needed for electric transportation.

“We recognize the growing importance of critical minerals and materials to clean energy transitions,” the energy ministers of the IEA member nations said in the communiqué at the conclusion of their meeting. The ministers directed the agency to report back within the next year on the comparative advantages of different methods to ensure the “availability, security and responsible sourcing” of minerals and materials that are critical to energy, including recycling, stockpiling, and research and development. The goal, the ministers said, is “to support investment in new sources of supply and development of a circular economy that accelerates clean energy transitions and ensures affordable security of supply.”

The version of the Build Back Better legislation passed by the U.S. House in November included $5 billion to be administered by the Department of Commerce to support the EV industry’s efforts to develop a more diverse and secure supply chain of raw materials. It is just a portion of the EV support included in the $1 trillion package that has been stalled because of the united opposition of Republicans, and dissent by a couple of Democrats in the 50-50 Senate, most notably Manchin.

Joel Levin, executive director of the EV advocacy group, Plug In America, said recent supply woes underscore the importance of strong government policy. The fact that China currently is so far ahead in ensuring a secure EV mineral supply (it manufactures more than 90 percent of the world’s LFP batteries) is due to policy decisions made a decade ago, Levin said.

“And, you know, we can do that, too,” he said. “There’s no intrinsic reason it has to flow through China. We need to invest in the production and refining of those minerals here, and battery manufacturing, and we’re starting to do that.”

In fact, he said, automakers have committed to half a trillion dollars in building new factories and developing the battery supply chain for electric vehicles. Levin believes the recent commodities volatility won’t slow the push for EVs, especially since the commodity price hike that has hurt consumers the most since the start of the Russia-Ukraine war is oil. 

Gasoline prices across the United States are up nearly 50 percent since the start of the year, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. And it appears that consumers are looking for alternatives. GoogleTrends reported on Twitter that internet search interest in electric cars reached a record high in the United States this month, apparently moving in tandem with the high price of gasoline.


