Friday, August 19, 2022 - South Korea's offer of economic support to North Korea has been rejected. They made this offer in exchange for denuclearization. North Korea said the proposal suggests President Yoon Suk Yeol is "really simple," state media KCNA reported Friday.

A proposal to swap economic cooperation for an end to North Korea's nuclear program was first made by Yoon in May, during his inauguration speech.

Yoon's offer was rejected by Kim Yo Jong, the younger sister of Kim Jong Un. She further leveled attacks at Yoon. She said, "to think that the plan to barter 'economic cooperation' for our honor, nukes, is the great dream, hope, and plan of Yoon, and we come to realize that he is really simple." She also said North Korea would not be sitting face to face with South Korea.

The Unification Ministry in South Korea responded that North Korea has distorted South Korea's idea and stated its intention to continue nuclear development instead of responding to the bold initiative.

Source: CNN
Friday, July 1, 2022 – The Russian-backed self-proclaimed Donetsk People’s Republic (DPR) stated it has accused two more British people of being “mercenaries.” An inquiry against British "mercenaries" Dylan Healy and Andrew Hill is currently underway. They face the same charges as the three previously convicted mercenaries.

The UK Foreign Office criticized the “political exploitation” of inmates. It said it had highlighted the issue with the Russian authorities. According to a spokesperson, he said: “We are in close communication with the Ukrainian government about their situations and firmly support Ukraine’s attempts to free them.”

This is the second time Britons will be apprehended during the Russia-Ukraine crisis. The first set apprehended were sentenced to death by firing squad but were given an ultimatum to appeal before July 9. The European Court of Human Rights has granted “interim measures” that would prevent the execution of the mercenaries.

Source: CNN 
Friday, August 5, 2022 – The Chinese Foreign Ministry announced the new countermeasures against Washington, including the suspension of the climate talks following Speaker Pelosi’s visit to Taiwan.

These measures will see the cancellation of future phone calls and messages between Chinese and US defense leaders, for which future dates have not been announced. It will also mean that China will cancel annual naval meetings under the China-US military maritime consultation mechanism. 

China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that “US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi insisted on visiting Taiwan in disregard of China’s serious concerns and firm opposition, seriously interfering in China’s internal affairs, undermining China’s sovereignty, territorial integrity, trampling on the One-China principle, and seriously threatening the peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait.” 

Beijing took these measures after sanctioning Pelosi and her immediate family members over her visit to Taiwan. China has already stepped-up military drills and warplane incursions around the island.

Source: CNN 
The electric battery maker SPARAR 0.0%KZ announced the location of a factory it will build in West Virginia — the byproduct of the Inflation Reduction Act. The plant will produce storage devices with no cobalt, a raw material mined in the Democratic Republic of Congo and processed in China.

The move is a harbinger of what is to come — the domestic mining of essential raw elements and building batteries in the United States. The 482,000-square-foot factory in Bridgeport, W.V. will initially employ 350 people. The California-based battery producer said it has an agreement with the United Mine Workers to hire and train idled workers, marking what could become coal country’s turnaround.

To start, the factory will build batteries that go into forklifts and farm equipment and those used for energy storage that harnesses electrons and releases them later. But over time, the plant will gear up for an expected boom in the electric vehicle market. EVs now make up about 2% of cars worldwide. But the Bank of AmericaBAC +2% says it could be as high as 25% in 2025 and 50% in 2030 in the U.S.