Tuesday, May 17, 2022 - The bid of the Scandinavian countries of Sweden and Finland to join NATO, the largest military alliance in the world, can only be completed by a unanimous agreement by all current members of the organization.

Swedish and Finnish bids to join may be rejected as Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the president of Turkey, opposed the move. He also added that the two countries should not send delegates with hopes of negotiation. 

Erdogan’s reason was that he cannot agree to the admission of countries that placed sanctions on Turkey. He also accused them of harboring the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, which the Turkish state has viewed as a terrorist group since a 2016 coup attempt.

The Finnish foreign minister made it clear that Finland would not enter any form of negotiation with Turkey. The Swedish Prime minister said with the new reality in Europe, NATO will strengthen Sweden, and vice versa, to end an age-long military non-alignment.

Source: BBC 
Wednesday, June 29, 2022 – Ukraine secured the release of 144 of its soldiers, including 95 who defended the Azovstal steelworks in Mariupol, in the largest exchange of the crisis yet. 144 Russian and separatist soldiers were returned to Russia, according to a pro-Russian separatist leader who verified the prisoner swap.

Following the Azov men’s seizure in Mariupol, many Russian politicians advocated for their trial and even death. Several members of the State Duma of Russia have stated that they will introduce new legislation that might disrupt prisoner swaps involving fighters whom Moscow deems “terrorists.”

More than a thousand Azovstal defenders who surrendered to Moscow’s forces at the end of a three-month siege were moved to Russian-held territory in May. The fate of the troops remained a major worry for Kyiv’s leaders, who claimed they would engage in a prisoner swap.

Some Russian military bloggers and pro-war politicians reacted negatively to the plan to exchange detainees; however, Moscow did not react to the prisoner exchange.

Source: The Guardian
Wednesday, May 18, 2022 - A flood from the torrential rainfall caused miners to be trapped in a Canadian-owned mine. Since the accident, A 24-hour-a-day rescue effort employing specialized equipment brought in from Ghana and South Africa has been underway.

It has taken about 4 weeks to reach the first rescue chambers that could be a point of refuge for the trapped miners. However, no miner was found in the chamber, located at about 560 meters from the surface.

Millions of liters of water have been pumped out of the mine. The rescue engineers have found it difficult to work in humid conditions to save their colleagues. All efforts are directed towards reaching the second refuge chamber, located at about 710 meters from the surface.

The miners’ wives have gathered close to the area in prayer congregations, with tears and hopes that their husbands will be found alive.

Source: BBC
LONDON, June 8 (Reuters) - Private equity funds are seeking a minority stake in information provider Benchmark Mineral Intelligence (BMI), aiming to gain exposure to the electric-vehicle battery supply chain, two sources with direct knowledge of the matter said.
UK-based Hg Capital and Bowmark Capital are two of several private equity firms seeking to buy a stake of up to 20% in Benchmark, which the sources says is valued in excess of 200 million pounds. The sources did not name other firms looking to buy a stake.

Bowmark said it doesn't comment on market rumours and Benchmark and Hg Capital declined to comment.
The sources would not say how the valuation was made, but they did say the process of selling a stake was being run by corporate advisory firm Cardean Bell, which declined to comment.
Interest in battery materials such as lithium, nickel, cobalt and graphite covered by Benchmark has been rising in recent years and is expected to grow at a faster pace as the energy transition from fossil fuels picks up pace and sales of electric vehicles accelerate.

"BMI doesn't just provide price assessments, it also provides detailed information about costs of production in the supply chain, cathode and anode manufacturers and battery makers," one of the sources with direct knowledge said.
"The lithium-ion battery and electric vehicle supply chain is growing at 25% a year," the source said, adding that the demand for information about the sector was growing alongside.

BMI sets reference and benchmark prices for the lithium industry, in which Elon Musk recently said "Tesla might actually have to get into the mining & refining directly at scale." read more
Subscription based Benchmark was started by Simon Moores in 2017. The company is expecting to employ more than 100 people by next year, the source said.
In its coverage of battery materials and related supply chains, Benchmark now rivals price reporting agencies such as Fastmarkets and Platts and consultants CRU and Wood Mackenzie.

"Benchmark is seen by the private equity funds as an investment for the electric vehicle revolution," the second source with direct knowledge said. "It is an ESG investment (environment, social and governance)."
Growth in the electric vehicle sector can be seen in forecasts for supplies of lithium-ion batteries expected to rise 50% this year to 600 gigawatt hours from last year.
In the auto industry, Germany's Volkswagen (VOWG_p.DE), opens new tab delivered some 452,000 battery-electric vehicles globally last year and is aiming for half of its global output to be all-electric by 2030. read more
In the United States, President Joe Biden has set a goal of 50% of new-vehicle sales being electric or plug-in electric by 2030.
