Wednesday, July 6, 2022 – The Islamic State has claimed responsibility for the attack on a Nigerian Prison where about 440 inmates have escaped.

During the attack, a security officer and three more were injured as suspected Boko Haram insurgents came to free their members who were held in the medium-security prison.

According to the prison service, 879 inmates fled the facility, 443 of them are still at large, four inmates died, and 16 more were injured.

President Muhammadu Buhari of Nigeria visited the prison. He emphasized that the attack was unacceptable and questioned the prison’s security system. He has alerted the security agencies to come up with a report and begin investigations. In a separate attack, the convoy of the President was also ambushed on his way to Daura, his hometown, for the Islamic festivals.

These attacks further show the security challenges that have plagued the country, spreading and growing from the northern regions.

Source: Reuters 
Monday, August 1, 2022 – According to a Reuters poll taken over the past week, the Bank of England is expected to raise borrowing costs by 50 basis points to 1.75% on Thursday due to rising inflation. Since the Bank of England became independent in 1997, it has never raised bank rates by a half point. 

In December, Britain’s central bank, amongst its major peers, was the first to raise interest rates, setting a precedent for its peers to play catch-up. The second consecutive meeting last week saw the US Federal Reserve raise interest rates by 75 basis points, and the Bank of Canada last hiked by 100 basis points. 

Fabrice Montagne at Barclays said they “expect the MPC to quicken the pace of tightening to 50 basis points.” We think the bank needs to demonstrate resolution in the face of ever-increasing inflationary risks, or it could lose control of the narrative.”

Source: Reuters
Monday, July 18, 2022 – Different places in the world have reported unprecedented levels of temperatures. 40C temperatures were reported in the U.K., the highest ever reported in the country’s history. 

Many people have fled from wildfires in France, Portugal, and Spain. Similar reports were given across North America. Smoke and soot blurred out the daylight in Argentina and Paraguay.

Experts have claimed that the vegetation around the world has become more flammable, and the soil is growing dry due to climate change. All of these factors increased the likelihood of wildfires occurring. Experts have advised that the governments of countries affected by the heatwave make plans to adapt to increasing temperatures as the years go by. 

Experts have shown that the Savannahs make up 70% of the world’s wildfires. The trend of fires, however, has been different in Africa. This is owing to changes in land usage, especially the rise of agricultural expansion. As it was reduced, it also led to an overall reduction of wildfires around the globe.

Source: BBC 
Panasonic is doubling down on battery production as sales of electric vehicles continue to rise, dominated by its customer Tesla. Electric vehicle sales reached a record high in Q2, rising 13% over the previous quarter according to consulting firm Cox Automotive, with Tesla making up 66% of the segment.

To help meet that demand, Panasonic has been working to grow its production capacity on multiple fronts. The company published plans in April to invest 400 billion yen (approximately $2.9 billion) in “growth areas” including automotive batteries and supply chain software, according to company statements.

In December, Panasonic Energy of North America announced plans to build a production campus in Reno, Nevada, adding to the existing production it has at Tesla’s Gigafactory 1 site in Sparks, Nevada. Panasonic has faced pressure from Tesla, which has asked the company to expedite battery production, Bloomberg reported.

EV battery production is heating up across the country. For example, LG Energy Solutions announced two facility plans this year to up capacity, including the announcement of a third battery cell manufacturing plant with GM in Michigan, as well as a battery factory in Arizona.

At least 13 EV battery manufacturing sites are slated to open in the U.S. in the coming years as of last December, with sites on the way from the likes of Ford, Stellantis and Volkswagen, according to the U.S. Department of Energy. Locations are largely concentrated in the Midwest and the South.

New government funding has also helped with the production push. In May, the Biden administration made $3.1 billion in battery and component manufacturing, recycling and second-life incentives available through the Department of Energy. The Panasonic project, expected to create an estimated 4,000 jobs, received incentives through Kansas’ Attracting Powerful Economic Expansion program.

“Kansas has an impressive history of being home to a skilled manufacturing workforce,” said Kris Takamoto, executive vice president of Panasonic Energy and head of EV Battery Business. “We appreciate Kansas’s dedication to sustainability and its commitment to and growth in the clean and renewable energy space.”