Thursday, December 8, 2022 – WNBA player Brittney Griner was released as part of a prisoner swap involving Russian arms dealer Viktor Bout.

Griner’s February detention in Russia caused diplomatic turmoil between the US and the Kremlin that played out alongside Russia’s war in Ukraine. Along with severe sanctions in reaction to the Ukraine war, US officials also maintained contact with Moscow over prisoner discussions.

She had been held since February when she was caught on drug smuggling accusations at an airport in the Moscow region. She had played in the off-season for a Russian women's basketball club. She was sentenced to nine years in prison in early August and was transferred to a Mordovia republic penal colony in mid-November after losing her appeal.

Bout, dubbed the "Merchant of Death," is a former Soviet military commander receiving a 25-year jail sentence in the United States for planning to kill Americans, acquiring and exporting anti-aircraft missiles, and providing material support to a terrorist group. A sentence that Moscow called "baseless and biased."

Source: CNN
Tuesday, November 1, 2022 – The President of the United States, Joe Biden, has accused oil companies of "war profiteering" as the possibility of a windfall tax was raised if the companies do not boost domestic production.

While giving a remark, with just over a week left from the midterm election due to hold on November 8, President Biden criticized significant oil companies for making record profits while refusing the prices at the pump for the people of America. The President vowed to look to congress to levy tax penalties on oil companies if they don't invest toward lowering the cost of fuel for American citizens.

The President emphasized more on ExxonMobil, which reported an earning of $19.7bn last week in the third quarter alone. He accused the company of using its record profits to provide shareholders with hefty dividends but failed to invest in improving production that would benefit consumers at the pump.

Source: The Guardian
Sunday, October 23, 2022 - The president of China, Xi Jinping, revealed a new leadership team stacked with loyal allies and has formally stepped into his norm-breaking third term ruling China with a tight grip on power.

After a close of the five-yearly Communist Party Congress on Sunday, Xi announced six men; Li Qiang, Zhao Leji, Wang Huning, Cai Qi, Ding Xuexiang, and Li Xi, to stand with him as members of the Politburo Standing Committee, the top ruling body in China.

With the lineup filled with core Xi loyalists, it made it clear that Xi had not only broken with recent precedent to take on a third term at the party's helm but also had the power concentrated at the very top to an extent unseen in decades.

Also, the full lineup of the 24-member Politburo was revealed Xi, which for the first time in at least 25 years, includes no women, highlighting the minimal level of female representation in the Party's top echelons.

Source: CNN
近日，宁德时代位于德国图林根州的首个海外工厂如期实现锂离子电池电芯的量产，标志着宁德时代的全球步伐实现里程碑意义的突破。

宁德时代德国工厂首批电芯由G2厂房的第一条电芯产线顺利下仓。其余产线的安装调试正在全力进行，以顺利实现爬坡达产。


这批电芯通过了宁德时代全球产品需通过的所有测试，意味着宁德时代已具备对欧洲客户的本地生产及供货能力。


“德国工厂如期实现电芯生产，彰显了我们作为行业的可靠合作伙伴，即使面对包括新冠疫情在内的各类风险挑战，仍会信守对客户以及欧洲电动化转型的坚定承诺。”宁德时代欧洲区联席总裁Matthias Zentgraf说，“我们正在为工厂的产能爬坡全力冲刺，这也将是我们明年工作的头等大事。”


今年4月，宁德时代德国工厂正式获得图林根州8GWh的电芯生产许可。此前，工厂已于2021年第三季度在G1厂房启动模组生产。


宁德时代德国工厂计划总投资18亿欧元，规划产能14GWh，未来将为当地总共提供2000个就业岗位。

