Thursday, May 5, 2022 - Twenty-two people have been reported dead and 40 people injured in a devastating flood in Kabul recently. The country is currently experiencing a humanitarian crisis and struggling to cope with the incidence.

The flood hit 12 provinces, a third of the provinces in the country but was more severe in the western provinces of Badghis and Fyrab and the Northern Province of Baghlan.

Apart from the death toll, 500 houses were destroyed, 2000 damaged, and 3000 acres of crops were lost to the flood. 

A Taliban Official mentioned that the Red Cross was helping out, and officials would approach other charitable international organizations for help to alleviate the situation. However, concerns about the illegitimacy of the Taliban have made the international community wonder how to help the country’s citizens without benefiting the Taliban.

Source: Reuters 
Wednesday, June 22, 2022 – Tens of thousands of people in southern China have been evacuated due to flooding, and more rain is expected.

Guangdong’s manufacturing hub suspended classes, office work, and public transportation due to rising waters and the threat of landslides. Almost 500,000 people in the neighboring province of Jiangxi have had their homes damaged and their lives uprooted.

In Guangdong, roughly the same number of people have been affected, primarily in Shaoguan, Heyuan, and Meizhou.

During the summer months, flooding is common in China, particularly in the central and southern regions that receive the most rainfall. The worst floods in recent years in China occurred in 1998 when over 2,000 people died, and nearly 3 million homes were destroyed, mostly along China’s largest river, the Yangtze.

The government has significantly invested in flood control and hydroelectric projects, such as the massive Three Gorges Dam on the Yangtze River.

Source: The Guardian 
Monday, May 16, 2022 - Amongst the several policies of former President Trump that President Biden has reversed is the withdrawal of US troops from Somalia.

Trump ordered a withdrawal in early 2020 as part of efforts to reduce US involvement in international politics. However, Biden has approved the redeployment of fewer than 500 troops back to the East African country to restore the US military presence in consultation with the Somali government.

According to the Pentagon official, the withdrawal was “abrupt and sudden,” giving strength and morale to the al-Shabaab forces. President Biden believes that al-Shabaab poses a notable threat and that the presence of US troops will contain the group. No confirmation has been made to suggest targeted strikes on specific leaders of al-Shabaab. Still, more emphasis has been made on other non-military components of the US counter-terrorism strategy in Somalia.

Source: CNN 
DALIAN, China/TOKYO -- China's top makers of electric vehicle battery materials will spend at least 71 billion yuan ($10.8 billion) to scale up output, in some cases tripling production capacity in products they have come to dominate.

The planned investments cover all key components of lithium ion batteries, publicly available capital expenditure plans released by 13 manufacturers show. Some companies have not disclosed timelines for investment or the volume of production expansion.

All are areas in which Chinese suppliers have grown their market shares in recent years by driving down prices.

Yunnan Energy New Material Group, or Semcorp, -- the world's leading supplier of battery separators -- aims to lift its global market share "from 31% in 2021 to 50% in 2025," Chairman Paul Xiaoming Lee told investors this month. The company announced roughly 20 billion yuan in new investments.

Shanghai Energy New Materials Technology is the core operating company within the Semcorp group. The unit surpassed Japan's Asahi Kasei around 2019 to take the world's top share in separators. The sheetlike material creates a barrier between a battery's electrodes, the cathode and the anode.

Semcorp will build factories in Yunnan, Jiangsu, and Hubei provinces, as well as one in the metropolis of Chongqing. The group will partially open a plant this year in Hungary and is considering building another facility in North America.

Semcorp's wide-ranging customers include Chinese EV battery makers CATL and BYD, as well as Japan's Panasonic and South Korea's Samsung and LG groups. Annual production capacity is expected to top 16 billion sq. meters in 2025, up from roughly 5 billion sq. meters from last year.

"We decide to increase production after agreeing to sales contracts with clients," said a Semcorp executive, suggesting that there was no need to be concerned about excess capacity.

Semcorp reported an 86% jump in revenue last year to a record 7.9 billion yuan. Lee said the company looks to raise non-Chinese customers' share of sales volume to 40% in 2025, from less than 30% now.

Elsewhere in the battery supply chain, BTR New Material Group, the leading manufacturer of anode material, unveiled a plan to nearly triple annual capacity when presenting quarterly earnings this month.

The company will build new factories in Shenzhen, where it is headquartered, and in Yunnan Province. BTR aims to be able to produce over 400,000 tons a year in the medium to long term, up from 140,000-plus tons at the end of 2021.

Jiangsu Guotai International Group, a major supplier of battery electrolytes, is building new plants in Zhejiang and Fujian provinces and in Poland.

Japanese companies once held an advantage in battery materials but lost their lead to Chinese competitors.

Last year, Chinese suppliers held global market shares ranging from 62% to 81% in separators, anodes, electrolytes and cathodes, data from the Yano Research Institute in Tokyo shows. Their shares climbed by 11 percentage points to 37 points from 2012 at the expense of Japanese rivals.

Price competition is key to their success. Not only do Chinese suppliers have the production readiness to take on large orders, they are able to keep costs down by buying vast supplies of lithium, cobalt, graphite and other materials.

Government support has also helped the industry grow. For Semcorp, over 100 million yuan of profit booked each year between 2019 and 2021 came from state subsidies.

Japanese rivals are looking to stage a comeback through "China-free" EV supply chains being developed in the U.S. and Europe, where Chinese companies face barriers to investment.

Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings plans to spend several billion yen (1 billion yen equals $7.8 million) through 2023 to double capacity at electrolyte plants in the U.S. and the U.K. Tokai Carbon, which makes graphite products for anodes, will expand production facilities at a French subsidiary.

Sumitomo Metal Mining is considering making cathode material in the U.S., which would represent a break from its Japan-only production structure.

While increasing production, Japanese players are keen to avoid a war of attrition against Chinese competitors, who are armed with government support, in materials that are increasingly becoming commodified. Instead they are looking to higher-margin applications.

Tokyo-based Toray Industries retains a large share in high-performance separators. The company is looking to reallocate investment to such high-end products.

China's breakneck production expansion has fueled concerns of a supply glut. Speaking at an industry forum in China, Li Zhen, chairman of Gotion High-Tech, last month predicted that production demand for some cathode and anode materials at 10 leading suppliers will far exceed global demand in 2025.