Wednesday, June 15, 2022 - President Xi of the People’s Republic of China has signed a legal order to allow activities in disputed territorial waters. which the State Media as “military activities other than war.”

Chinese foreign ministry officials staked a claim to the Taiwan Strait, and their spokesperson says China has “sovereignty, sovereign rights, and jurisdiction over the Taiwan Strait.” He further accused countries that claim the Strait as international waters of making false claims and attempting to threaten China’s sovereignty and security.

Foreign nations have sailed warships through the Strait on freedom of navigation exercises in recent years, infuriating Beijing.

Ned Price, the US State Department spokesperson, said the Strait is an international waterway with high seas freedoms guaranteed by international law. He expressed that the United States is concerned about China’s aggression in the Strait. However, he emphasized that the US would continue to sail freely in places allowed by international law.

Source: The Guardian
Wednesday, June 29, 2022 – Japan is experiencing its warmest day ever as part of its worst heatwave since records began in 1875. The scorching heat has prompted government warnings of an impending power outage and recommendations for citizens to save energy whenever possible.

Temperatures in Tokyo exceeded 35 degrees Celsius for the fifth day on Wednesday, marking the worst known sequence of hot weather in June since records began in 1875. Meanwhile, in Isesaki, northwest of the capital, the temperature reached 40.2 degrees Celsius, the highest ever recorded in June in Japan.

The government has advised the citizens to use air conditioning to avoid heatstroke since hospitalizations grow with the heat, and the heat is expected to persist in the coming days, according to weather forecasters.

Because of human-caused climate change, heatwaves have grown more common, more severe, and stay longer.

Source: BBC
Wednesday, June 22, 2022 – The pace at which prices grow in the UK increased to 9.1% in May from 9% in April, according to the Office for National Statistics (ONS). 

The greatest causes of inflation are the cost of fuel and energy. Workers and unions are fighting for pay increases to deal with rising prices. 

However, to avoid an “inflationary spiral” akin to the 1970s, where businesses raise wages and subsequently pass the cost on to customers through higher prices, the government has cautioned against employers awarding significant pay raises.

The Bank of England warned that inflation may hit 11 percent this year as it is currently at its highest level since March 1982, when it also stood at 9.1 percent.

According to experts, raising interest rates is one way to slow the rate at which prices rise. The goal is to raise borrowing costs to encourage people to borrow less, spend less, and save more.

Source: BBC 
普勤时代与印尼ANTAM和IBI公司共建印尼动力电池产业链项目

• 项目投资总金额近60亿美元，专注于镍矿的开采和加工、电池材料、电池制造以及电池回收等子项目

• 三方伙伴关系的建立是宁德时代开拓全球布局的重要里程碑，同时也将促进印尼的电动汽车产业发展



4月14日，广东邦普下属公司普勤时代与印度尼西亚PT Aneka Tambang (ANTAM)和PT Industri Baterai Indonesia (IBI)签署三方协议，共同打造包括镍矿开采和冶炼、电池材料、电池制造和电池回收等在内的动力电池产业链项目。广东邦普是宁德时代控股子公司。



根据协议，三方将在印度尼西亚北马鲁古省东哈马黑拉县的FHT工业园区及印尼其他相关工业园区投资建设动力电池产业链项目，投资总金额不超过59.68亿美元。



ANTAM是一家印度尼西亚上市的国有矿业公司。印尼电池公司(IBI)是一家印尼国有公司，由印尼国家石油公司、国家电力公司、国家矿业公司以及ANTAM新组建的专门用于开展电池生产的投资公司，主要在印尼及海外投资电池及相关产业链项目。



该项目将进一步完善宁德时代在电池行业的战略布局，保障上游关键资源和原材料供应，降低生产成本，并推进公司电池回收产业布局。



“印尼动力电池产业链项目对宁德时代的全球战略布局具有重要的里程碑意义。” 宁德时代创始人兼董事长曾毓群表示，“印尼项目将成为中印尼友谊常青的象征，我们对项目的未来发展充满信心。”



印尼海事和投资统筹部部长Luhut Binsar Pandjaitan说:“今天签署的框架协议对印尼打造电动车产业链战略具有非常重大的意义，我相信在各方的努力下，这个项目将得以顺利落实。”