Friday, September 23, 2022 – The financial market has reacted to the biggest tax-cutting moves in 50 years, as the pound has fallen to a fresh 37-year low against the dollar. The stocks of the United Kingdom also dropped after chancellor Kwasi Kwarteng outlined a series of tax cuts and economic measures in a massive shake-up of the country’s finances. 

Pounds drooped below $1.09 after falling more than 3% against the dollar. Recently, the pound sterling has fallen due to the worry about the economy, and partly due to the stronger US dollar. On Friday, the pound also fell more than 1% against the euro, which dropped to €1.09.

According to Bloomberg data, analysts expect that by August 2023, the UK interest rate to hit 5.2%, with high expectations that there could be a one percentage point interest rate hike at the next meeting of the bank of England in November.
Friday, September 9, 2022 - Officials of Ukraine confirmed that the military had made a sweeping gain in a counteroffensive in the north-eastern Kharkiv region, which President Volodymyr Zelenskiy asserted that Ukrainian forces have reclaimed a vital city in the region and that Russian offensives across the country are being repelled.

Zelenskiy posted a video of Ukrainian soldiers on his social media accounts. In the video, the soldiers were standing above a building in the key Kharkiv city of Balakliia, held by the Russians for six months, alongside the Ukrainian flag.

Ukrainian troops have also reached the city of Kupyansk in the Kharkiv region. The city is a key logistics and supply hub for Russian forces. However, according to a photo that shows the Ukrainian soldiers holding a flag in front of a signpost at the southern entrance of the city, the city, which is roughly 70 miles east of Kharkiv, is yet to be retaken by the Ukrainian forces.

Source: CNN 
Wednesday, July 20, 2022 – The former Sri Lanka Prime Minister, Ranil Wickremesinghe, was elected by the lawmakers as the president of the crisis-hit South Asian country. This move will likely anger the protesters since they have demanded his removal from office for weeks.

Wickremesinghe, who is a six-time former prime minister and an essential ally of the former President, Gotabaya Rajapaksa, won a parliamentary ballot after his predecessor ran away from the country due to an escalating protest over an economic crisis marked by a dire shortage of essential imports such as food, medicine, and fuel. He received 134 votes out of a possible 223.

While Wickremesinghe addressed the country shortly after being elected president by the lawmakers, he said, “While the country has been divided into party lines, the time has come to work together.”

As the voting was in progress, a small group of protesters gathered at the president’s residence to protest Wickremesinghe’s nomination.

Source: CNN 
This week, both houses of the U.S. Congress approved the $280 billion bill aimed at boosting the semiconductor industry. But opponents object to the $52.7 billion subsidy for semiconductor firms such as Intel to expand their manufacturing facilities when their profits are high and the market is strong.

However, if one can look beyond this controversial direct subsidy, the CHIPS and Science Act of 2022 offers a new opportunity to rejuvenate the semiconductor industry that was once dominated by the United States in the 1980s. The bill allocates $11 billion for supporting advanced semiconductor manufacturing research, and a $2 billion fund to support technology transfer from laboratory to applications. This funding can stimulate research and development that are needed to develop future generations of semiconductors. 

The CHIPS Act is an essential step to build a resilient supply chain for semiconductors. However, one should not downplay the importance of developing a sustainable supply chain for EV batteries that are critical for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and for achieving the 50% electric vehicle adoption rate by 2030. 

Semiconductor shortages began in September 2020, but lithium batteries for electric vehicles could be in short supply by 2024, followed by a lack of raw materials such as lithium and cobalt by 2027. The Biden administration must take some proactive steps to support the EV market in the U.S. and beyond. I propose the following steps.

First, almost 40% of the world supply of lithium batteries is controlled by Chinese firms such as BYD and CATL. As the United States calls for decoupling from China, securing alternative suppliers of lithium batteries with Korea’s LG Chem and Japan’s Panasonic is an immediate step. This step also fits U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen’s friend-shoring agenda to trade with trusted partners, dividing countries into friends or foes.

Second, like the CHIPS Act, the Biden administration should develop incentive programs for producing EV batteries in the United States, creating more jobs. The European Union is taking the lead to allocate $3.5 billion to support battery manufacturing and research so that it can become less dependent on Asian suppliers.  In the United States, General Motors is working with Korea’s LG Chem to develop a plant to produce EV batteries in Ohio. But more government support is necessary to create a thriving EV battery industry in the United States. 

Third, lithium and cobalt are two essential minerals for producing lithium batteries, but these two minerals are in short supply. There is a need to increase supply of lithium as worldwide demand will outstrip its total supply by 2025, according to the International Energy Agency (IEA).

Fortunately, the United States has approximately 10% of the world's lithium reserves, located in states including Nevada, North Carolina and North Dakota. For instance, North Carolina has one of largest and richest spodumene ore-deposits in the world, and Piedmont Lithium of North Carolina is the only fully integrated spodumene-to-lithium hydroxide mining operation in the United States. (Spodumene is a mineral that lithium is extracted from.) Also, in July 2021, General Motors made a multi-million dollar investment in Australia’s Controlled Thermal Resources (CTR) to bolster the mining firm’s efforts to extract lithium from California’s Salton Sea Geothermal Field with an estimated reserve of 600,000 tons of lithium carbonate annually.  However, extracting lithium would face opposition because of their environmental concerns over mining operations.

Increasing cobalt supply will be even more challenging because 70% of the world’s cobalt is first mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, a process that involves forced and child labor, and then refined in China. To secure the cobalt supply from Congo in the future, China took proactive steps in navigating Congolese politics, lobbying powerful politicians in mining regions. In 2020, Chinese firms owned or had a stake in 15 of Congo’s 19 cobalt-producing mines. 

To develop a sustainable supply chain for EV batteries, there is an urgent need to develop alternative battery technology that reduces or eliminates the use of lithium or cobalt. Tesla partnered with China’s CATL to develop battery cathodes without cobalt in 2020, and Oak Ridge National Laboratory is developing a new class of cobalt-free cathodes for EV batteries. In the longer term, Toyota has developed its solid-state batteries, which appear to be more promising because of their light weight and faster charging properties. 

Ultimately, government support is essential to stimulate collaborations between private firms and research centers and laboratories to conduct research that can be used to develop innovative EV batteries that are powerful, sustainable, and environmentally friendly.

