Monday, July 4, 2022 – Ukrainian forces are prepared to hoist the national flag on Snake Island, a strategically significant outpost in the Black Sea, after Russian troops withdrew following months of intense shelling.

Ukraine has viewed control of the island as a crucial first step in easing Moscow’s embargo of its southern ports even though it is exposed to bombing. It remained unclear if Ukrainian soldiers would try to maintain a long-term presence there.

It gained international attention when Russia originally took control of Snake Island in February. Ukrainian forces have made multiple attempts to recover it since Russia assumed control.

Russia said it had left the island on Thursday as a “gesture of goodwill,” demonstrating that it was not impeding United Nations efforts to build a humanitarian corridor. Volodymyr Zelenskiy stated that although the withdrawal did not ensure the security of the Black Sea region, it would “seriously limit” Russian activity there.

Source: The Guardian 
Saturday, July 23, 2022 – The President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, met with a senior United States Congressional delegation in Kyiv and promised continued support in the war against Russia. 

The delegation, which included Adam Smith, chair of the House Armed Services Committee, stated, “The United States, along with allies and partners around the world, has stood with Ukraine by providing economic, military, and humanitarian assistance.” 

To make the total provided so far to 16, the United State Secretary of defense, Lloyd Washington, said on Wednesday that he would send four additional high mobility artillery rocket systems to Ukraine.

On Saturday, the statement made by the delegation made no specific reference to the transfer of weapons. Separately, Smith was quoted as telling the United States-backed Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty that additional launch rocket systems were ready to be provided by Washington and its allies.

Source: Reuters
Wednesday, July 6, 2022 – The Islamic State has claimed responsibility for the attack on a Nigerian Prison where about 440 inmates have escaped.

During the attack, a security officer and three more were injured as suspected Boko Haram insurgents came to free their members who were held in the medium-security prison.

According to the prison service, 879 inmates fled the facility, 443 of them are still at large, four inmates died, and 16 more were injured.

President Muhammadu Buhari of Nigeria visited the prison. He emphasized that the attack was unacceptable and questioned the prison’s security system. He has alerted the security agencies to come up with a report and begin investigations. In a separate attack, the convoy of the President was also ambushed on his way to Daura, his hometown, for the Islamic festivals.

These attacks further show the security challenges that have plagued the country, spreading and growing from the northern regions.

Source: Reuters 
FlexGen, a battery storage startup based in Durham, has raised $100 million from investors, including the Dutch energy company Vitol.

Why it matters: Better forms of battery storage are needed so that energy grids can use power from clean sources, like wind turbines and solar panels.

What it does: The startup, which employs around 150 people, doesn't manufacture batteries, but helps integrate them into the traditional power grid and makes software to optimize their use.

Its customers include North Carolina's Electric Cooperatives and Southern California Edison.
What they're saying: "Solar and wind are terrific in that they're clean and green, but they happen to be intermittent," FlexGen CEO Kelcy Pegler told Axios. "The sun's not always shining and the wind’s not always blowing."

"Batteries provide a really great solution to making sure that we can bridge the gaps and make tomorrow's power of solar and wind more available."
What's next: FlexGen is planning to open a new innovation and research center in Durham this year, which will allow it to showcase emerging battery technologies to customers.

Pegler said the company picked Durham because "it's such a great pool of intellect."
Zoom out: FlexGen is the latest local tech company to bring in a large round of funding, joining the likes of Epic Games, JupiterOne and Teamworks. Funding in the Triangle has remained strong this year, despite a national pullback in venture capital investment.