Forest fires have erupted in the vicinity of the Chernobyl nuclear reactor, with Ukraine claiming that Russian control of the abandoned power plant is hampering efforts to control the flames.

At least seven fires have been spotted within Chernobyl’s exclusion zone via satellite imagery taken by the European Space Agency, according to a statement by Ukraine’s parliament.

The fires were probably ignited by the “armed aggression of the Russian federation”, the parliament said, although it’s not clear whether it was shelling, arson or some other factor that caused the outbreak. Fires like these within 10km of the plant are “particularly dangerous”, the statement added, with Ukraine claiming its firefighters are unable to tackle the blazes due to Russia’s presence.

Russian forces captured the Chernobyl plant in the opening days of the invasion of Ukraine in February. The site is known for a 1986 explosion and resulting fire that caused a major nuclear disaster, spreading radioactive contamination across Europe. The plant and surrounding area have largely been sealed off since then.

However, about 200 tons of fuel remain at the bottom of the crippled reactor and is relatively unprotected. Experts have raised concern that fierce fighting in the area could damage the reactor further and cause radioactive material to escape.

Ukrainian authorities say the ongoing war is also hindering attempts to monitor radiation levels at Chernobyl. “There is no data on the current state of radiation pollution of the exclusion zone’s environment, which makes it impossible to adequately respond to threats,” said Energoatom, Ukraine’s state-run nuclear company. “Radiation levels in the exclusion zone and beyond, including not only Ukraine, but also other countries, could significantly worsen.”

In 2020, a forest fire near the reactor caused radiation levels to spike to 16 times above normal. The conflagration was extinguished after a two-week effort by firefighters, with a man arrested for allegedly starting the fire “for fun”.


Climate scientists have pointed out that such potential disasters are partially a symptom of global heating, with rising temperatures causing forests to dry out and become more suitable fuel for fire. In Europe, places from Sweden to the Mediterranean have experienced record fire outbreaks in recent years.

LeRoy Westerling, an expert in wildfires at the University of California, said warmer temperatures are causing bigger fire seasons around the world, although the situation in Ukraine is complicated “in the context of a war where there are a lot of unusual ignition sources”.

“Burning around Chernobyl is a concern because the burning may mobilize radioactive particles that were deposited decades ago when the reactors melted down,” he added.

In the Chernobyl region itself, the die-off of surrounding trees due to the nuclear disaster has left a large amount of dead, fire-prone wood that is susceptible to large blazes. In 2015, an international team of scientists warned that “an expanding flammable area associated with climate change will lead to a high risk of radioactive contamination with characteristic fire peaks in the future.” The study added that firefighting infrastructure in the area was understaffed and underfunded, even before the Russian invasion.

Separate research published last year confirmed that smoke from forest fires can carry radioactive material, and that the escalating climate crisis risks “nuclear wildfires [that] present a pressing yet little discussed problem”.

Michael Mann, a climate scientist at Penn State University, said the fires in Ukraine fitted with that pattern of climate change-fueled wildfire that has repeatedly scorched places such as the US and Australia.

Mann said the war and the climate crisis share a broader cause, namely “our continued dependence on fossil fuels”.

“Fossil fuels are what prop up authoritarian petrostates like Russia who have used the tremendous wealth they have derived from the mining and selling of fossil fuels to the rest of the world to build their military,” he said.

I hope you appreciated this article. Before you move on, I wanted to ask if you would consider supporting the Guardian’s journalism during one of the most consequential news cycles of our lifetimes.

We have never been more passionate about exposing the multiplying threats to our democracy and holding power to account in America. With President Biden vowing to stay in the race despite his stumbling debate performance, and Donald Trump emboldened by the supreme court’s ruling that presidents have immunity from prosecution for official acts, there is an urgent need for free, trustworthy journalism that foregrounds the stakes of November's election for our country and planet. 

Yet, from Elon Musk to the Murdochs, a small number of billionaire owners have a powerful hold on so much of the information that reaches the public about what’s happening in the world. The Guardian is different. We have no billionaire owner or shareholders to consider. Our journalism is produced to serve the public interest – not profit motives.

And we avoid the trap that befalls much US media: the tendency, born of a desire to please all sides, to engage in false equivalence in the name of neutrality. We always strive to be fair. But sometimes that means calling out the lies of powerful people and institutions – and making clear how misinformation and demagoguery can damage democracy.

From threats to election integrity, to the spiraling climate crisis, to complex foreign conflicts, our journalists contextualize, investigate and illuminate the critical stories of our time. As a global news organization with a robust US reporting staff, we’re able to provide a fresh, outsider perspective – one so often missing in the American media bubble.

Around the world, readers can access the Guardian’s paywall-free journalism because of our unique reader-supported model. That’s because of people like you. Our readers keep us independent, beholden to no outside influence and accessible to everyone – whether they can afford to pay for news, or not.

Source: The Guardian
Monday, February 28, 2022 – Cyclone Batsirai blasted into the Indian Ocean island late Saturday, hammering the eastern shoreline until it moved away late Sunday, killing at least ten people, displacing 43,000 people, and destroying some towns and villages. Madagascar, which has a population of roughly 30 million people, was already suffering from the repercussions of Cyclone Ana, which had killed 55 people and displaced 130,000 just two weeks before.

Officials stated that emergency responders were struggling to access sections of Madagascar damaged by a cyclone over the weekend because many roads and bridges were unusable, and rising river levels threatened to displace even more people. 

The official disaster relief agency in Madagascar said it was supplying basic necessities to 43,000 people in 180 temporary shelters. At the same time, the World Food Programme claimed it had begun giving hot meals to 4,000 evacuated individuals.

Source: CNN
Thursday, February 17, 2022 – A wave of a landslide caused by heavy rains caused massive casualties in the Brazilian city of Petrópolis, with the fatality count standing at 110 people. 

According to the Civil Defense of Rio, another 134 persons remain missing, and the continuous torrential rains that prompted the evacuation of another area in the city on Thursday may cause more casualties as the rainfall on Tuesday afternoon alone was greater than the historical average for the whole month of February.

Search and rescue crews were forced their way through sludge, searching for survivors amid the wreckage. The National Civil Defense stated it had saved 24 people but over 439 individuals had lost their houses.

Brazil's President Jair Bolsonaro, who was in Moscow when the landslides began on Tuesday before traveling to Hungary, is scheduled to visit Petrópolis on Friday. He had directed ministers and requested "urgent help" for the victims.

Source: CNN
Automakers do not have enough metal to meet demand for electric vehicles, even as customers facing high fuel prices clamor for more.

The Russian war on Ukraine has disrupted oil, natural gas and coal supply chains, exacerbating tightness across metal markets and heating up prices for nickel, steel, aluminum, copper and a host of other materials critical to EV manufacturing. EV makers, already struggling with a shortage in semiconductors alongside the rest of the auto industry, now face problems securing metals essential to the batteries that power the cars.

The pressure is on, as global sales of plug-in passenger EVs, already forecast by S&P Global Market Intelligence in February to triple in 2022 from 2020 levels, are poised to go even higher as crude oil stays above $100 a barrel and gasoline prices go through the roof.

"If you have rising fuel prices, by which I mean gasoline and diesel, that is a significant push factor towards EV adoption," said Adam Panayi, managing director at Rho Motion, a company providing EV forecasts and analysis. "But the key moving piece that needs to be monitored is [carmakers'] ability to source materials and also manufacture these vehicles quick enough to meet demand."

Metal supplies in shortage

EV makers are having a difficult time meeting consumer demand, with wait times for vehicles stretching between nine and 12 months, according to research published in February by Canalys, a technology research firm. That problem is only likely to get worse as automakers struggle to secure nickel and the other materials needed for batteries.

"What we're seeing this year is the demand for our vehicles is very strong," John Lawler, vice president and CFO of U.S. automaker Ford Motor Co., said during a Feb. 8 earnings call. "There's still an imbalance this year between supply and demand, especially with the new product lineup we have. We're virtually sold out on all of our new products."

In January, passenger plug-in EV penetration rates slipped by 0.94 percentage points in China and by 12.3 percentage points in Europe's top-four markets, causing sales to decline, according to S&P Global Commodity Insights senior analyst Alice Yu.

"The slowdown of [plug-in] EV sales growth is the result of sluggish supply chain improvement," Yu said, also citing the continued shortage of semiconductor chips.

Demand for lithium, cobalt and nickel outstripped supply in 2021, with market tightness likely to persist this decade as battery making ramps up, according to Market Intelligence analysis. Furthermore, lithium-ion battery supply will be unable to keep up with demand in 2022 in part due to rising raw material prices, according to Wood Mackenzie consultant Jiayue Zheng.

"Under our base-case scenario, we project that battery supply will not meet demand until 2023," Zheng said. Demand for the batteries needed to power plug-in EVs is forecast to reach 1,160 GWh by 2026, a 752.9% leap from 2020, according to Market Intelligence research.

Prices for battery metals were already climbing in 2022 before Russia's invasion of Ukraine, pressured by pandemic-induced supply chain constraints, surges in demand and a deficit of new mining projects. In the wake of the war in Ukraine, EV makers are facing another bout of sticker shock for several key metals, in addition to ongoing shortages in semiconductor chips.

"Rising energy costs and volatile raw material pricing have really caused cost inflation [across] the entire value chain from mining to vehicle," said George Miller, an analyst at Benchmark Mineral Intelligence.

Nickel prices soared above $100,000 per tonne in early March with the threat of sanctions against Russia, the world's fourth-largest producer of nickel, and an attempt by a nickel market participant to reduce a short bet.

Although the London Metal Exchange three-month nickel price has since cooled down, to $32,380/t as of March 23, the unprecedented spike sent chills through metals markets. Russian mining company PJSC MMC Norilsk Nickel produces about 17% of the world's class one nickel, which is the type needed for batteries, according to Benchmark Mineral Intelligence.

A wave of sanctions and other punitive measures taken against Russia in response to its invasion of Ukraine have sent gasoline prices sky-high: The average price for a gallon of regular unleaded gas hit $4.24 in the U.S. on March 25, up 48% from a year earlier, according to AAA, an automobile owners association. That pushed some drivers to consider ditching internal combustion vehicles altogether, said Stephanie Valdez Streaty, head of electric vehicle battery solutions at Cox Automotive Inc.

"There's definitely an uptick in consumers looking at zero-emission [vehicles], whether it's an EV or hybrid, as an option," Valdez Streaty said. "The question is the availability and the price point. If you can find an EV and you can afford one you're good to go, but the challenge is going to be finding one in that price point and getting it in a timely manner."

EV makers squeezed

EV producers are caught in a bind between inflation, shortages and customer demand. In most industries, this would cause product prices to rise, but customers have rebelled, leading automakers to eat the extra costs.

"To the extent to which they can, [original equipment manufacturers] will take the hit on the increased pricing, be that for battery materials — lithium, cobalt, nickel, manganese, graphite — or energy prices on the cathode and anode stage," Panayi said. "They will take the lion's share of the impact of that themselves so that they can sell these electric vehicles, which they're already selling at a loss anyway, while they build up scale."

U.S.-based EV maker Rivian Automotive Inc. raised prices for its R1T electric pickup and R1S SUV by about 20% early in 2022, only to cancel the price increases for existing reservations after backlash from customers, according to reports.

Tesla Inc. raised prices for some of its recently after CEO Elon Musk said the company was "seeing significant recent inflation pressure in raw materials and logistics," in a March 13 post on Twitter. Neither Rivian Automotive nor Tesla responded to requests for comment.

"The demand is not the issue," Herbert Diess, chairman of the management board and group CEO of Volkswagen AG, said during a March 15 earnings call. "The supply chain for EVs will be the bottleneck, not only for us but also for all our competitors, because we need the capacities for the raw materials, for lithium, for nickel at the beginning, and still for cobalt. That has to be established."