Wednesday, November 16, 2022 – The office for National Statistics said United Kingdom’s inflation rose to a fresh high in October due to Soaring energy costs, which is terrible news for an economy sliding into recession. In October, the annual inflation rate rose to 11.1%, up from 10.1% in the 12 months from September.

The rise in gas and electricity prices has caused a sharp rise in living costs, despite a government energy price guarantee, which caps energy bills at £2,500 ($2,970) for the typical household. In contrast, inflation of food prices rose to 16,4%.

In a statement by ONS chief economist Grant Fitzner, he said, “over the past year, the gas price has climbed nearly 130% while electricity has risen by around 66%.

The Data from ONS last week showed that the economy of the UK shrank in the third quarter, and the bank of England projects that the recession will continue through the first quarter of 2024.

Source: CNN
Saturday, October 29, 2022 – The Russian Minister for Defence announced that it would suspend its participation in the brokered grain export deal of the United Nations with Ukraine after the Crimean city of Sevastopol was attacked by a drone. Though the report from Russia cannot be independently verified, Russia blames Kyiv for the attacks.

On Saturday, Russia was accused by a top Ukrainian official of inventing "fictitious terrorist attacks" on its facilities in Crimea, and Moscow is also accused of blackmail. In a telegram post, the head Ukrainian President's office, Andrii Yerma, blames Russia for "nuclear blackmail, energy blackmail, and food blackmail."

In July, Ministers from Ukraine and Russia signed an agreement brokered by the United Nations and Turkey following months of negotiations. Russia promised to unblock the Black Sea's port to allow the safe passage of grain and oilseeds, some of the most important exports of Ukraine.

Source: CNN
Monday, October 3, 2022 – According to the report from regional officials, at least one ballistic missile was fired by North Korea on an apparent trajectory over Japan. The Joint Chiefs of Staff of South Korea also confirmed the launch.

From the tweet posted by the office of the Prime Minister of Japan, the projectile is believed to have been launched over the northern Japanese Island of Hokkaido, which marks a potential escalation for North Korean missile launches.

In a statement from the Premier’s office, Japanese civilians were urged “to not approach anything suspicious that is found and to immediately contact the police or fire department.” The recent launch, according to the count by CNN, marks the 23rd missile launch this year, including both ballistic and cruise missiles.

Launches over Japan are rare; the last time a ballistic missile was fired over territorial Japan by North Korea was September 15, 2017.

Source: CNN
近日，宁德时代位于德国图林根州的首个海外工厂如期实现锂离子电池电芯的量产，标志着宁德时代的全球步伐实现里程碑意义的突破。

宁德时代德国工厂首批电芯由G2厂房的第一条电芯产线顺利下仓。其余产线的安装调试正在全力进行，以顺利实现爬坡达产。


这批电芯通过了宁德时代全球产品需通过的所有测试，意味着宁德时代已具备对欧洲客户的本地生产及供货能力。


“德国工厂如期实现电芯生产，彰显了我们作为行业的可靠合作伙伴，即使面对包括新冠疫情在内的各类风险挑战，仍会信守对客户以及欧洲电动化转型的坚定承诺。”宁德时代欧洲区联席总裁Matthias Zentgraf说，“我们正在为工厂的产能爬坡全力冲刺，这也将是我们明年工作的头等大事。”


今年4月，宁德时代德国工厂正式获得图林根州8GWh的电芯生产许可。此前，工厂已于2021年第三季度在G1厂房启动模组生产。


宁德时代德国工厂计划总投资18亿欧元，规划产能14GWh，未来将为当地总共提供2000个就业岗位。

