Tuesday, May 24, 2022 – On his tour of Asia visiting allies, President Biden likened Taiwan to the tensions between Russia and Ukraine in a statement that attracted remarks from the Chinese leadership.

For the second time in many months, the US promised unequivocally that the US is prepared to defend Taiwan if China attacked. Before this time, the United States’ position had been vague regarding the situation.

Chinese Foreign Minister said that Taiwan is inseparable from China, and their position on that is not subject to compromise. He mentioned further that the situation in Ukraine is unlike that of Taiwan, urging the US to abide by the One-China Principle. 

The ties that the US has with China acknowledge the principle of the One Chinese government, but at the same time, its Taiwan Relations Act states that the US must provide the island with the means to defend itself.

Source: BBC
Monday, April 11, 2022 - Texas continues to experience incredibly bad weather severe storms continue from last week, including thunderstorms, wind, and widespread showers. Along with this adverse weather, several tornadoes were formed in the wake of the storms as they passed with a series of twisters formed just north of Austin, Texas. Some of the funnel clouds were incredibly wide and were accompanied by hail the size of baseballs or oranges, pelting down on several rural areas, including Bell county. According to witnesses and residents alike, the tornadoes wreaked an insurmountable amount of damage, destroying houses, uprooting trees, and eliminating power supplies throughout the area, injuring 23 people. The state of Iowa, 900 miles away, has also issued tornado warnings.
Source: New York Post
Sunday, June 5, 2022 - Several explosions rocked Kyiv in the early hours of Sunday, a day after officials said its troops recaptured the eastern battlefield city of Sievierodonetsk in a counter-offensive against Russia.

Klitschko said at least one person was hospitalized, but no deaths had been reported early Sunday. Other officials said the railway network appeared to be the target of the Russian bombardment. 

On Sunday, the governor of the Luhansk region, including Sievierodonetsk, Serhly, and Gaidai, said that Ukrainian forces controlled about half the city after recapturing a large chunk from Russian troops.  

On Saturday, mayor Oleksandr Stryuk told national television that “the situation is tense and complicated. Our military is doing everything to drive the enemy out of the city.” 

Source: Reuters
Tesla isn’t alone in terms of facing supply chain squeezes. Solar and storage developers across the country are witnessing delayed and canceled projects as a result of labor and equipment shortages, transportation backlogs as well as the soaring price of lithium, a key raw material in the main batteries currently used for electric vehicles and energy storage. Storage developers have had a tough time procuring lithium-ion batteries as a result. Solar deployments in the U.S., meanwhile, didn’t meet expectations for 2021 because gigawatts’ worth of projects were delayed in part due to supply chain challenges. 

Tesla is placing an emphasis on diversifying battery chemistries, and nearly half of the vehicles it produced in the first quarter had lithium iron phosphate batteries, which contain no nickel or cobalt.

The company’s energy storage deployments touched 846 MWh in the first quarter, a 90% year over year increase, but the ongoing supply chain challenges have limited its growth and demand for its storage products remains higher than its production capacity, Tesla reported. Tesla is ramping up production at a Megapack factory, which produces battery units, to meet this demand. Solar deployments, meanwhile, decreased by 48% year over year, to 48 MW in Q1, driven largely by import delays. 

Right now, the mining and refining of lithium appears to be the key limiting factor to “accelerating the advent of a sustainable energy future,” Musk told analysts on Wednesday’s call. 

“It certainly is responsible for quite a bit of cost growth in the sales. It’s, I think, the single biggest cost growth item right now certainly on a percentage basis,” he added.

There isn’t a shortage of lithium ore, Musk pointed out — lithium itself is a common element, but it needs to go through “a whole series of refinement steps” that requires a lot of industrial equipment before it can be used in a battery cell. He encouraged entrepreneurs to enter the lithium space, saying, “do you like minting money? Well, the lithium business is for you.”

Lithium prices remain high because EV demand has continued to grow and supply hasn’t been able to keep up, Morten Lund, partner with Stoel Rives, said. However, he views this as a temporary issue, somewhat comparable to the silicon shortages that the solar industry experienced in the past.

“It was just a matter of suddenly, solar became very attractive and there weren’t enough silicone facilities. So we built some more and three years later, silicone prices plummeted,” he said. 

Similarly, there’s a general understanding now that EVs are here to stay, which gives people who might be looking to invest in lithium facilities an excuse to do so, he added.

“I fully anticipate this will result in a bit of a gold rush on lithium for the next couple of years… and that will drastically drop lithium prices, which in turn will spur further development of batteries and EVs,” he said.