Friday, July 22, 2022 – The European Union expressed anger over MPs’ backing of legislation overriding the post-Brexit arrangement for Northern Ireland by launching four other legal cases against the government of the United Kingdom.

At the House of Commons, the protocol bill for Northern Ireland was cleared at its third hearing by 267 votes to 195 and will arrive at the Lords in the autumn.

The EU court possesses the power to impose multimillion-euro fines on the UK, and its decision could be the first step towards the bloc’s taking punitive action through mechanisms with Brexit deals. 

The commission made a statement on Friday that it was taking legal action partly in light of “the continued passage of the Northern Ireland protocol bill through the UK parliament,” which was said to “go directly against” the spirit of proffering collective solutions to current issues.

Source: The Guardian
Sunday, July 17, 2022 – Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskiy abruptly fired the head of Ukraine’s powerful domestic security agency, the SBU. The state prosecutor general says there are a great number of cases of collaboration with Russia by officials in their agencies. 

The Executive Order, which was released on Friday, saw the abrupt sackings of SBU chief Ivan Bakanov, Zelenskiy’s childhood friend, and the prosecutor general, Iryna Venediktova, who played a key role in the prosecution of Russian war crimes. It was announced on the President’s website.

He said over 60 officials from Venediktova and Bakanov’s agencies have started working against Ukraine in Russian-occupied territories, and 651 alleged treason cases and collaborations have been opened against prosecutorial and law enforcement officials.

Zalenskiy said, “Such an array of crimes against the foundations of the national security of the state pose very serious questions to the leaders,” and vowed that every question will receive a proper answer.

Source: The Guardian 
Saturday, September 24, 2022 – The United States has been accused by China of sending “very wrong, dangerous signals” to Taiwan after the secretary of state of the United State told his Chinese counterpart that maintenance of peace and stability over Taiwan was vitally important.

US officials told reporters that, the focus of the 90-minute, direct and honest talks between the secretary of state, Antony Blinken, and the Chinese foreign minister, Wang Yi, was Taiwan, their discussion was on the margins of the UN general assembly in New York.

The Foreign Ministry of China said in a statement on the meeting that United States was sending a very wrong dangerous signal to Taiwan, and warned that the more rampant Taiwan’s independence activity, the less likely there would be a peaceful settlement.

Chinese Foreign ministry tagged the Taiwan issue as an “Internal Chinese matter”, and said the United States has no right to interfere in the method used to resolve it.

Source: The Guardian
当地时间9月21日，宁德时代宣布与美国储能技术平台和解决方案供应商FlexGen达成合作协议，将在三年时间内为后者供应10GWh的先进储能产品。



宁德时代将为 FlexGen供应集装箱式液冷储能产品EnerC。该款产品兼具IP55防护等级和C5防腐等级，可完美适应多种极端天气，同时满足全系统20年安全可靠运行。凭借业内领先的高集成液冷系统设计，EnerC的能量密度可以达到259.7kWh/m2，较传统风冷系统提高了近两倍。



在FlexGen的HybridOS™能源管理系统平台加持下，宁德时代储能系统将为公用事业、竞争性电力市场以及市政项目提供先进、可靠的能源。HybridOS™平台目前为德克萨斯州、加利福尼亚州及整个北美地区的高性能储能系统提供支持。



此前，FlexGen刚被指定为宁德时代授权服务供应商，为宁德时代电池储能系统提供维护和优化服务。这不仅进一步深化了双方的合作伙伴关系，也拓展了宁德时代在北美的服务网络。目前，宁德时代和FlexGen在储能系统项目方面的合作已超过2.5GWh。



在促进能源转型和提高电网弹性方面，储能行业拥有前所未有的广阔前景。宁德时代致力于为全球客户提供可持续的储能产品，与FlexGen深化合作并达成最新的供应协议，有助于宁德时代为北美储能项目供应重要设备，加快推进在北美市场的发展。

宁德时代在新能源科技创新方面全球领先，产品广泛应用于全球大型重要储能项目中，包括南加州爱迪生公司总容量超过2.1GWh的三个项目，以及德克萨斯州运行中及在建的超过500MWh的商业储能项目。



FlexGen首席执行官Kelcy Pegler 表示：

FlexGen和宁德时代在储能方面已经合作多年。与宁德时代的合作伙伴关系，能够为客户带来优异的品质、出色的性能和积极成果，在此基础上，我们与宁德时代达成了更深入的合作。对有机会发展储能市场，并为客户带来卓越的储能科技，我们感到很兴奋。



宁德时代副总裁谭立斌表示：

FlexGen一直是宁德时代在北美布局和发展储能业务的重要合作伙伴。深厚的技术合作确保了客户项目的卓越表现及可靠性，也造就了一批优秀的项目。此次深化合作协议的签订，既是对现有合作成果的肯定，也展现了双方进一步深化合作伙伴关系的巨大潜力。