Friday, August 5, 2022 - The nuclear agency in Ukraine says part of a giant nuclear power plant controlled by Russia has been damaged by Russian rockets, but no radiation leak is suspected. Enerhoatom reported that a nitrogen-oxygen unit and a high-voltage power line had been damaged at the Zaporizhzhia plant. 

As the local officials appointed by Russia blame Ukraine for shelling earlier, Ukraine also blames Russian forces for launching rockets at civilian-occupied areas from the site.

Russia seized the Zaporizhzhia plant in March, but the Ukrainian employees were kept. It consists of six pressurized water reactors and stores radioactive waste. The plant and surrounding areas close to Ukrainian-held territory are controlled by Russia. 

The United Kingdom’s defense ministry said the area had been used by Russia to take advantage of its “protected status” to minimize the risks of attack by Ukrainian forces.

Source: BBC 
Saturday, August 27, 2022 - A meeting on nuclear disarmament that has been going on for the past 1 month failed the United Nations when Russia refused to accept the final draft of the treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.

As part of the effort to reduce nuclear risks and stop the expansion of nuclear arsenals around the world, there is a review of the treaty every five years.

United Nations Ambassador Gustavo Zlauvinen said there had been attempts from Russia to amend the treaty, which would have "produced chaos" at this late stage in the negotiations.

Beatrice Fihn, the group's Executive Director, said, "This result is terminally insertions and a total abdication of responsibility in the face of an unacceptably dangerous global situation." He also added that the nuclear-armed state has failed to make progress on their disarmament, and they have spent over $82 billion on maintaining their arsenal.

Source: CNN
Wednesday, September 7, 2022 - Wednesday, Russia's Envoy to Beijing, Andrey Desinov, told reporters that Chinese leader Xi Jinping and President of Russia, Vladimir Putin, will meet on the sidelines of a summit in Uzbekistan next week.

The expected meeting at the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) summit would be the first time the two leaders who have established a close relationship will meet face-to-face since Russia invaded Ukraine earlier this year.

Since the early days of the pandemic, the expected trip would be Xi's first oversea trip and comes just weeks before a major political meeting in Beijing, where he is expected to break tradition and assume a third term in power.

The scheduled meeting between Xi and Putin and the choice of destination for the first overseas trip Xi is taking signals the importance of the Russia relationship for China, even in the face of international blowback against Moscow since the war with Ukraine.

Source: CNN
2022年8月12日，宁德时代正式宣布在匈牙利东部城市德布勒森建设电池工厂，规划产能为100GWh，投资金额73.4亿欧元。这也是继德国工厂后，宁德时代在欧洲建设的第二座工厂。经股东大会等程序批准后，首栋厂房将于年内破土动工。



该项目位于德布勒森南部工业园区，占地221公顷，将为欧洲的汽车制造商生产电芯及模组产品。



匈牙利德布勒森市地处欧洲心脏地带，宁德时代德布勒森工厂靠近奔驰、宝马、Stellantis、大众等客户的整车厂，有利于宁德时代更好地响应欧洲市场的需求，进一步完善全球战略布局，加速欧洲电动化与能源转型。



宁德时代将践行减少电池制造碳足迹的承诺，大量使用可再生能源发电，并积极与当地合作伙伴探讨共同开发太阳能项目。


此外，宁德时代还将与当地合作伙伴探讨建立电池材料工厂的可能性，推动电池价值链可循环及可持续发展。


 “毫无疑问，德布勒森工厂将进一步提高我们的竞争力，帮助我们更好地响应欧洲客户的需求，从而加速欧洲电动化转型。”宁德时代创始人兼董事长曾毓群博士表示，“此次宁德时代在匈牙利的绿地投资，将是公司完善全球战略布局的一大步，也是我们为人类新能源事业做出卓越贡献的重要一步。”

匈牙利外交与对外经济部部长彼得·西亚尔托（Péter Szijjártó）表示：“全球和欧洲的经济最近正面临着巨大挑战。我们匈牙利有一个明确的目标，就是在欧洲大陆经济衰退的背景下依旧保持强劲增长。实现这一目标的最佳办法，就是吸引对电动汽车的高端投资，这是汽车行业中最具革命性的领域。此次宁德时代带来匈牙利有史以来最大的绿地投资，我们对此感到自豪。匈牙利最近已成为世界领先的电池制造中心之一，这次大规模的投资进一步巩固了我们的地位。”


宁德时代匈牙利工厂得到了众多欧洲客户的赞赏和欢迎。薛夫铭（Markus Schäfer），梅赛德斯-奔驰集团股份公司董事会成员、负责研发和采购的首席技术官表示：“宁德时代在匈牙利新建的欧洲先进工厂是我们与核心合作伙伴扩大电动车生产的又一里程碑。作为行业技术领导者、我们的合作伙伴，宁德时代将为我们在欧洲生产的下一代电动车提供性能卓越且符合碳中和标准的电池电芯，以此响应我们因地制宜的本土化采购战略。梅赛德斯-奔驰也成为新工厂在初始产能规模下的首位且最大的客户。同时令我们感到振奋的是，宁德时代匈牙利工厂致力于实现碳中和生产，这也将助推我们实现‘2039 愿景’目标。”