Wednesday, June 22, 2022 – In what appears to be an attack inside Russia’s borders, dramatic footage of a drone crashing into an oil refinery and causing a fiery explosion has emerged from Russia. 

According to social media footage, the drone crashed into the Novoshakhtinsk oil refinery in Rostov in what would be a suspected breach of Russia’s air defense. Despite using drones during the war, Ukraine has not claimed responsibility for the alleged attack.

If the refinery attack is confirmed, it will imply that the drone was launched from within Russia or passed over Russian-controlled territory on its way to the refinery, passing through Russian air defense systems along the way.

Although no one was hurt in the incident, the refinery has seized operation as they wait for repairs.

Source: The Guardian
Monday, May 23, 2022 – Ontario experienced thunderstorms that started around Sarnia, a city in Ontario. The storm then went through the southern part of Ontario towards Ottawa, leaving more than 350,00 customers without power or electricity.

According to reports, similar storms went through Central Quebec on the same day, leaving more than 500,000 homes without power.

In both places, the storms destroyed homes, electricity lines, and trees, leaving the regions affected in absolute devastation. There were also reports of overturned cars as a result of the storms.

As a result of the severe winds associated with the thunderstorms, five people have died, and a few more were injured, according to weather reports from Ontario and the National Capital Region.

Reports from officials and experts say that crews have been mobilized to restore services to the affected region.

Source: CNN
Monday, April 11, 2022 - Brazil's Amazon rainforest has reached a sad milestone with the highest deforestation levels ever recorded. The country's National Institute for Space Research released findings that 363 square miles of trees and vegetation have been removed from the basin within the first three months of this year alone, which is the highest level of deforestation since the corporation's first study conducted in 2016.

As the largest remaining rainforest on the globe, the Amazon is responsible not only for air quality, water resources, and battling against global warming, but also provides a safe ecosystem and habitat for animals, insects, and plants alike that is essential for their continued survival. However, the security of the Amazon has been severely impacted since 2019 when President Jair Bolsonaro came into power, choosing instead to replace environmental safeguards with economical pursuits, leading in part to this unfortunate milestone.
Source: CNN
Chinese companies that produce raw materials for electric vehicle batteries show indications of using forced labor, according to a report from The New York Times.

The newspaper reported that mining conglomerate Xinjiang Nonferrous Metal Industry employs hundreds of Uyghurs, an ethnic minority in China, as part of a so-called work transfer program.

The Times reported China has acknowledged running such a program that moves Uyghurs and other ethnic minorities from the south of Xinjiang to the north to work in industrial jobs.

In response to a CNBC request for comment, Liu Pengyu, a spokesperson for the Chinese embassy in the U.S., said allegations of forced labor are “a big lie.”

“It is a lie against logic, against facts and against legal principles,” he said in an email, adding that people are not forced to be a “transferred laborers” in Xinjiang.

The U.S. State Department previously noted, citing an independent researcher, that transferred workers are at risk of being subjected to forced labor. It has also previously cited Chinese academic publications that “described labor transfers as a crucial means to fragment Uyghur society and mitigate the ‘negative’ impact of religion.”

In social media posts translated by the Times, Xinjiang Nonferrous said workers from mostly Muslim minorities were lectured on “eradicating religious extremism” and becoming workers who “embraced their Chinese nationhood.”

Chinese authorities have repeatedly denied that the country imprisons or enslaves Uyghurs. On Tuesday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said the claims of forced labor in Xinjiang are a “huge lie made up by anti-China forces to denigrate China.” He said the rights of workers of all ethnic groups in Xinjiang are duly protected.

Xinjiang Nonferrous Metal Industry produces minerals and metals, including lithium, nickel and copper. It has exported metals to the United States, Germany, U.K., Japan and India, the Times reported. It’s unclear whether these relationships are ongoing, however, the New York Times reported.

The report was published on the eve of the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act taking effect in the United States. The legislation bans goods made with forced labor in Xinjiang from entering the U.S. market.

The Times reported that thousands of companies could have some link to Xinjiang in their supply chains. If fully enforced, many products, including some needed for electric vehicles, may be stopped at the border.