Wednesday, June 29, 2022 – Japan is experiencing its warmest day ever as part of its worst heatwave since records began in 1875. The scorching heat has prompted government warnings of an impending power outage and recommendations for citizens to save energy whenever possible.

Temperatures in Tokyo exceeded 35 degrees Celsius for the fifth day on Wednesday, marking the worst known sequence of hot weather in June since records began in 1875. Meanwhile, in Isesaki, northwest of the capital, the temperature reached 40.2 degrees Celsius, the highest ever recorded in June in Japan.

The government has advised the citizens to use air conditioning to avoid heatstroke since hospitalizations grow with the heat, and the heat is expected to persist in the coming days, according to weather forecasters.

Because of human-caused climate change, heatwaves have grown more common, more severe, and stay longer.

Source: BBC
Monday, April 11, 2022 - For yet another day, the Philippines has been battered by the first tropical storm of the season, named Megi. This weather system formed during a low-pressure front last week, over the Western Pacific Ocean, and has been wreaking havoc on the island chains ever since. Though tropical storms are a common occurrence in that hemisphere, they are typically expected during the Philippines’ “wet” or typhoon season, which lasts between July and November. As this is currently the “dry” season for this country, experiencing a storm of this magnitude is out of the ordinary. Tropical Storm Megi is likely a result of the consistent climate change the globe continues to experience, and has so far caused dangerous flooding, high winds, and even catastrophic landslides in rural or mountainous areas. Sadly, the storm has also claimed the lives of at least 25 individuals.
Source: CNN
Sunday, June 12, 2022 - South Korean Defense Minister Lee Jong-sup said that his country will boost its defense capabilities by working closely with the United States and Japan to counter North Korea’s nuclear and missile threat.

Lee urged North Korea to immediately end its nuclear weapon and missile programs while speaking at an Asian security meeting in Singapore.   

In his speech at the Shangri-La Dialogue, Lee said, “The South Korean government will strengthen capabilities to better implement the United States’ extended deterrence, and will strengthen the response capabilities of South Korea to deter North Korea’s nuclear and missile threats.”

He also expressed South Korea’s interest in strengthening security cooperation between the US and Japan to respond to North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs. 

Lee said the South Korean government is ready to extend economic support if North Korea could make substantial progress in ending its nuclear program, 

Source: Reuters
普勤时代与印尼ANTAM和IBI公司共建印尼动力电池产业链项目

• 项目投资总金额近60亿美元，专注于镍矿的开采和加工、电池材料、电池制造以及电池回收等子项目

• 三方伙伴关系的建立是宁德时代开拓全球布局的重要里程碑，同时也将促进印尼的电动汽车产业发展



4月14日，广东邦普下属公司普勤时代与印度尼西亚PT Aneka Tambang (ANTAM)和PT Industri Baterai Indonesia (IBI)签署三方协议，共同打造包括镍矿开采和冶炼、电池材料、电池制造和电池回收等在内的动力电池产业链项目。广东邦普是宁德时代控股子公司。



根据协议，三方将在印度尼西亚北马鲁古省东哈马黑拉县的FHT工业园区及印尼其他相关工业园区投资建设动力电池产业链项目，投资总金额不超过59.68亿美元。



ANTAM是一家印度尼西亚上市的国有矿业公司。印尼电池公司(IBI)是一家印尼国有公司，由印尼国家石油公司、国家电力公司、国家矿业公司以及ANTAM新组建的专门用于开展电池生产的投资公司，主要在印尼及海外投资电池及相关产业链项目。



该项目将进一步完善宁德时代在电池行业的战略布局，保障上游关键资源和原材料供应，降低生产成本，并推进公司电池回收产业布局。



“印尼动力电池产业链项目对宁德时代的全球战略布局具有重要的里程碑意义。” 宁德时代创始人兼董事长曾毓群表示，“印尼项目将成为中印尼友谊常青的象征，我们对项目的未来发展充满信心。”



印尼海事和投资统筹部部长Luhut Binsar Pandjaitan说:“今天签署的框架协议对印尼打造电动车产业链战略具有非常重大的意义，我相信在各方的努力下，这个项目将得以顺利落实。”