Monday, April 11, 2022 - For yet another day, the Philippines has been battered by the first tropical storm of the season, named Megi. This weather system formed during a low-pressure front last week, over the Western Pacific Ocean, and has been wreaking havoc on the island chains ever since. Though tropical storms are a common occurrence in that hemisphere, they are typically expected during the Philippines’ “wet” or typhoon season, which lasts between July and November. As this is currently the “dry” season for this country, experiencing a storm of this magnitude is out of the ordinary. Tropical Storm Megi is likely a result of the consistent climate change the globe continues to experience, and has so far caused dangerous flooding, high winds, and even catastrophic landslides in rural or mountainous areas. Sadly, the storm has also claimed the lives of at least 25 individuals.
Source: CNN
Friday, May 27, 2022 - Russian businessman Andrey Melnichenko handed over ownership of two of the world's largest coal and Fertilizer companies to his wife the day before he was sanctioned by the European Union, according to reports.

The legal filings reviewed before March 8 show that Melnichenko was the owner of the two companies through a chain of trusts and corporations stretching from Moscow and the Swiss Town of Zug to Cyprus and Bermuda.

When Russia's invasion of Ukraine began in February, Melnichenko was concerned he would be identified under the European Union's Russia sanction regime. Melnichenko notified trustees of his retirement as the beneficiary and made his wife the beneficiary. 

Melnichenko, with an estimated fortune of $18 billion, was ranked as Russia's eighth richest man last year by Forbes.

Source: Reuters 
Thursday, May 12, 2022 - North Korea, since the start of the pandemic, has shut its borders to visitors and humanitarian aid. However, news sources said areas of Pyongyang had been locked down for two days following the news of an outbreak. Citizens have reportedly resorted to panic buying.

The Supreme Leader, Kim Jong-Un, has called a crisis meeting to preside over the ensuing trend. Health Officials and front-line workers have been deployed with tests carried out on the suspected patients. Results from the tests are in line with the Omicron variant according to North Korean State Media – KNCA.

Kim told the Workers party Politburo that “the goal was to eliminate the root within the shortest time.” Consequently, there has been tighter control at the borders and on the movement of citizens. Production activities now occur in Isolation to prevent spread.

Despite the outbreak, there are no signs that the country is ready to open up to the world.

Source: The Guardian
Tesla isn’t alone in terms of facing supply chain squeezes. Solar and storage developers across the country are witnessing delayed and canceled projects as a result of labor and equipment shortages, transportation backlogs as well as the soaring price of lithium, a key raw material in the main batteries currently used for electric vehicles and energy storage. Storage developers have had a tough time procuring lithium-ion batteries as a result. Solar deployments in the U.S., meanwhile, didn’t meet expectations for 2021 because gigawatts’ worth of projects were delayed in part due to supply chain challenges. 

Tesla is placing an emphasis on diversifying battery chemistries, and nearly half of the vehicles it produced in the first quarter had lithium iron phosphate batteries, which contain no nickel or cobalt.

The company’s energy storage deployments touched 846 MWh in the first quarter, a 90% year over year increase, but the ongoing supply chain challenges have limited its growth and demand for its storage products remains higher than its production capacity, Tesla reported. Tesla is ramping up production at a Megapack factory, which produces battery units, to meet this demand. Solar deployments, meanwhile, decreased by 48% year over year, to 48 MW in Q1, driven largely by import delays. 

Right now, the mining and refining of lithium appears to be the key limiting factor to “accelerating the advent of a sustainable energy future,” Musk told analysts on Wednesday’s call. 

“It certainly is responsible for quite a bit of cost growth in the sales. It’s, I think, the single biggest cost growth item right now certainly on a percentage basis,” he added.

There isn’t a shortage of lithium ore, Musk pointed out — lithium itself is a common element, but it needs to go through “a whole series of refinement steps” that requires a lot of industrial equipment before it can be used in a battery cell. He encouraged entrepreneurs to enter the lithium space, saying, “do you like minting money? Well, the lithium business is for you.”

Lithium prices remain high because EV demand has continued to grow and supply hasn’t been able to keep up, Morten Lund, partner with Stoel Rives, said. However, he views this as a temporary issue, somewhat comparable to the silicon shortages that the solar industry experienced in the past.

“It was just a matter of suddenly, solar became very attractive and there weren’t enough silicone facilities. So we built some more and three years later, silicone prices plummeted,” he said. 

Similarly, there’s a general understanding now that EVs are here to stay, which gives people who might be looking to invest in lithium facilities an excuse to do so, he added.

“I fully anticipate this will result in a bit of a gold rush on lithium for the next couple of years… and that will drastically drop lithium prices, which in turn will spur further development of batteries and EVs,” he said.