Friday, December 23, 2022 – Three people have been killed, and others wounded as a gunman opened fire in central Paris. A Kurdish Cultural Centre seems to have been the primary target of the attacker, where he shot members of the local community. 

In a short statement by the Kurdish Democratic Council (CDF-K), which was in charge of the center, they condemned the attack and said tribute would be paid to those killed during a vigil on Friday evening.

Anne Hidalgo, Paris Mayor, said she believed that a far-right activist committed the Murder. She added that “Kurds wherever they reside, must be able to live in peace and security. More than ever, Paris is by their side in these dark times.”

Prosecutors have launched a murder investigation.

Source: BBC 
Monday, December 5, 2022 - Two Russian airbases, far from the frontlines, had been rocked by explosions as it appeared that Kyiv had launched a pre-emptive strike on bombers that Kremlin had used to cripple the electrical grid in Ukraine.

The Ministry of Defence in Russia confirmed the attack on Monday, claiming that two of its airplanes were damaged when it intercepted two Ukrainian drones. 

Another explosion took place at the Dyagilevo military airbase near Ryaza, a city that is less than 150 miles from Moscow. A fuel truck exploded, resulting in three deaths, and five others were wounded.

The Kremlin confirmed that it had already briefed President Vladimir Putin of the incidents. The president was reopening the Crimean Bridge on Monday, where an explosion that happened in October raised doubts that Russia could protect the peninsula it occupied from Ukraine in 2014.

Source: The Guardian 
Monday, October 3, 2022 – According to the report from regional officials, at least one ballistic missile was fired by North Korea on an apparent trajectory over Japan. The Joint Chiefs of Staff of South Korea also confirmed the launch.

From the tweet posted by the office of the Prime Minister of Japan, the projectile is believed to have been launched over the northern Japanese Island of Hokkaido, which marks a potential escalation for North Korean missile launches.

In a statement from the Premier’s office, Japanese civilians were urged “to not approach anything suspicious that is found and to immediately contact the police or fire department.” The recent launch, according to the count by CNN, marks the 23rd missile launch this year, including both ballistic and cruise missiles.

Launches over Japan are rare; the last time a ballistic missile was fired over territorial Japan by North Korea was September 15, 2017.

Source: CNN
Jeep maker Stellantis NV on Monday announced it has signed a non-binding memorandum of understanding with a supplier for raw materials needed to build electric-vehicle batteries.

The agreement between Stellantis and GME Resources Limited — which owns a nickel and cobalt project in western Australia — is the latest example of automakers moving to shore up supplies of key raw materials deep into the supply chain to meet the capacity for their EV plans.

The deal with GME is for the "future sale of quantities of battery grade nickel and cobalt sulphate products" from the NiWest Nickel-Cobalt Project, according to a news release. That project is expected to produce approximately 90,000 tons per year of battery-grade nickel and cobalt sulphate for electric vehicles. A feasibility study for the project is slated to start this month, according to Stellantis and GME.

"Every day, Stellantis is working to provide our customers clean, safe, affordable, cutting-edge freedom of mobility," Maxime Picat, chief purchasing and supply chain officer for the transatlantic automaker, said in a statement. "Securing the raw material sources and battery supply will strengthen Stellantis' value chain for electric vehicle battery production and equally important, help the company achieve its aggressive decarbonization target."

Stellantis has said it plans to transition 100% of its passenger sales mix in Europe to battery electric vehicles by 2030. And by that time, it expects for half of its passenger car and light-duty truck sales mix in the U.S. to be battery electric. It aims to be carbon neutral by 2038.

In a statement, Paul Kopejtka, managing director of GME, said that a definitive agreement with Stellantis "would be a critical step in being able to progress the NiWest Project through to commercial operations" and said that GME hopes the MOU is "the first step in a long-term partnership."

Across the industry, automakers have been working to secure raw materials for EV batteries in response to government policies and growing consumer demand for all-electric vehicles.

Earlier this year, Stellantis inked deals with Vulcan Energy and Controlled Thermal Resources for supplies of lithium hydroxide for Europe and North America, respectively.

General Motors Co. earlier this year announced new supply agreements that it said would help secure all of the raw materials it needs for EV batteries to meet a 2025 goal of having 1 million units of annual EV capacity in North America. And in July, Ford Motor Co. executives detailed several deals the company reached to shore up raw materials for battery production as they announced that the automaker had secured 100% of the battery capacity it needs to hit annual EV production capacity of 600,000 units by the end of next year.

