Friday, May 27, 2022 - British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Russian President, Vladimir Putin, is making slow but visible progress in the Donbas,  Eastern Ukraine.

Johnson expresses his fear that Putin continues to make progress in Donbas at a high cost to himself and the Russian military. 

The invasion launched by Russia on February 24 is called a "special military operation" to demoralize and "de-nazify its neighbor", but Ukraine and the West say these are false pretexts for a war of aggression.

Johnson said, "the only way there can be an end is for Putin to accept that the denazification of Ukraine has already been achieved, and withdrawing would be with dignity and honor." However, the prime minister clarified that his statement did not mean he supported Russia's premise that there were Nazis in Ukraine.

Source: Reuters
Monday, April 11, 2022 - The European Union is discussing further sanction packages to be levied against Russia, and the country and its military continue its invasion of Ukraine. According to the Danish Foreign Minister, Jeppe Kofod, several EU leaders have been building sanctions regarding oil and other economic deterrents.

This comes on the heels of Russia's brutal involvement in the Kyiv suburb of Bucha, where the bodies of slain Ukrainian civilians have continued to be unearthed since Russian forces withdrew at the end of last week. Leaders of Ireland, Lithuania, and Denmark, among others, are involved with this next round of sanctions against Russia and hope the parameters placed on essential raw resources will promote the country's withdrawal from Ukraine without further violence.
Source: CNN
Wednesday, June 22, 2022 – The pace at which prices grow in the UK increased to 9.1% in May from 9% in April, according to the Office for National Statistics (ONS). 

The greatest causes of inflation are the cost of fuel and energy. Workers and unions are fighting for pay increases to deal with rising prices. 

However, to avoid an “inflationary spiral” akin to the 1970s, where businesses raise wages and subsequently pass the cost on to customers through higher prices, the government has cautioned against employers awarding significant pay raises.

The Bank of England warned that inflation may hit 11 percent this year as it is currently at its highest level since March 1982, when it also stood at 9.1 percent.

According to experts, raising interest rates is one way to slow the rate at which prices rise. The goal is to raise borrowing costs to encourage people to borrow less, spend less, and save more.

Source: BBC 
LONDON, June 8 (Reuters) - Private equity funds are seeking a minority stake in information provider Benchmark Mineral Intelligence (BMI), aiming to gain exposure to the electric-vehicle battery supply chain, two sources with direct knowledge of the matter said.
UK-based Hg Capital and Bowmark Capital are two of several private equity firms seeking to buy a stake of up to 20% in Benchmark, which the sources says is valued in excess of 200 million pounds. The sources did not name other firms looking to buy a stake.

Bowmark said it doesn't comment on market rumours and Benchmark and Hg Capital declined to comment.
The sources would not say how the valuation was made, but they did say the process of selling a stake was being run by corporate advisory firm Cardean Bell, which declined to comment.
Interest in battery materials such as lithium, nickel, cobalt and graphite covered by Benchmark has been rising in recent years and is expected to grow at a faster pace as the energy transition from fossil fuels picks up pace and sales of electric vehicles accelerate.

"BMI doesn't just provide price assessments, it also provides detailed information about costs of production in the supply chain, cathode and anode manufacturers and battery makers," one of the sources with direct knowledge said.
"The lithium-ion battery and electric vehicle supply chain is growing at 25% a year," the source said, adding that the demand for information about the sector was growing alongside.

BMI sets reference and benchmark prices for the lithium industry, in which Elon Musk recently said "Tesla might actually have to get into the mining & refining directly at scale." read more
Subscription based Benchmark was started by Simon Moores in 2017. The company is expecting to employ more than 100 people by next year, the source said.
In its coverage of battery materials and related supply chains, Benchmark now rivals price reporting agencies such as Fastmarkets and Platts and consultants CRU and Wood Mackenzie.

"Benchmark is seen by the private equity funds as an investment for the electric vehicle revolution," the second source with direct knowledge said. "It is an ESG investment (environment, social and governance)."
Growth in the electric vehicle sector can be seen in forecasts for supplies of lithium-ion batteries expected to rise 50% this year to 600 gigawatt hours from last year.
In the auto industry, Germany's Volkswagen (VOWG_p.DE), opens new tab delivered some 452,000 battery-electric vehicles globally last year and is aiming for half of its global output to be all-electric by 2030. read more
In the United States, President Joe Biden has set a goal of 50% of new-vehicle sales being electric or plug-in electric by 2030.
