Thursday, June 2, 2022 - For decades, Singapore has relied on Malaysia for a third of its poultry imports. About 3.6 million live chickens are exported to Singapore every month.

In a dramatic turn of events, the Malaysian Prime Minister announced that there would be an embargo on the export of live chickens away from the country. This is an effort to tackle local shortages, which resulted in exorbitant prices.

The ban will affect Singapore hard both because chicken, along with rice, is the country's wildly acclaimed national dish. The locals also say that replacing fresh meat with frozen one will not be sufficient.

Following the news from Malaysia, the Singapore government has assured its citizens that there will be an adequate supply of chicken. However, the local traders say the poultry prices are bound to surge.

The shortage is expected to continue for months. It will be another addition to the list of food shortages that have rocked the entire globe in the past few months.

Sources: CNN 
Thursday, May 12, 2022 - The War between Russia and Ukraine has raised many security concerns worldwide, especially in countries that border the two countries. Finland Shares about 800 miles of border with Russia. It has never been a North Atlantic Treaty Organization member to avoid rows with Russia.

However, things are beginning to change with the Prime minister and President of Finland releasing a joint statement to join NATO. The formal announcement is expected to be made in a few days after thorough consultation by the parliament and respected political figures.

Sweden has also hinted at making similar decisions as soon as possible.

There have been different reactions from Russia and NATO members, with Russia threatening measures against the two countries if they violate their longstanding neutrality. On the other hand, NATO has a positive outlook on the announcement.

Source: BBC
Sunday, June 12, 2022 - Chinese Defense Minister Wei Fenghe said that ties were at a critical stage with the US and that it was up to the United States to improve the bilateral relationship. He also added that China firmly rejected “US smearing, accusation and even threats.”

Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said on Saturday that the number of unsafe and unprofessional encounters between Chinese planes and vessels with those of other countries is increasing at an alarming rate. He added that the United States would stand by its allies, including Taiwan.

At the meeting, Russia’s invasion of Ukraine took center stage. Wei said China supported peace talks and opposed “providing, applying maximum pressure.” He added that China had not provided any material support to Russia.

A senior fellow at the International Institute for Strategic Studies, Meia Nouwens, said Wei’s speech was consistent with Beijing’s line on the Russia-Ukraine issue.

Source: Reuters 

	Please use the sharing tools found via the share button at the top or side of articles. Copying articles to share with others is a breach of FT.com T&Cs and Copyright Policy. Email licensing@ft.com to buy additional rights. Subscribers may share up to 10 or 20 articles per month using the gift article service. More information can be found at https://www.ft.com/tour.
	https://www.ft.com/content/5a5b1cfb-bc18-44c4-8600-df2d7d6c8b14

	A South Korean consortium will invest $9bn in Indonesia to build a mines-to-manufacturing electric vehicle supply chain, as battery makers look to reduce their reliance on Chinese suppliers and mitigate commodity price rises following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

The group led by LG Energy Solution, the world’s second-biggest EV battery maker, has signed an agreement with local mining company PT Aneka Tamban (Antam) and Indonesia Battery Corporation.

The project will handle the entire battery production process including smelting and refining nickel, manufacturing precursors, cathode materials and cells, and assembling finished products in the south-east Asian country.

Indonesia is the world’s largest producer of nickel, with about 21mn tonnes of reserves, according to US Geological Survey data.

The deal comes as South Korean battery makers have increased investment in the chemicals and materials used in EV batteries to reduce their dependence on China, the world’s biggest processor of most of the minerals needed for production.

The war in Ukraine has added to the pressure to improve supply chain security. Russia accounts for 11 per cent of the world’s nickel production and prices of crucial commodities have increased significantly since the invasion.

The London Metal Exchange’s three-month nickel price has risen about 60 per cent this year to $33,175 a tonne as of April 14, increasing concern about the growing cost burden of battery makers.

The auto industry’s plans to pivot away from fossil fuel-powered vehicles has been complicated by its heavy reliance on refineries and factories in China, where about 80 per cent of battery materials are processed.

“The stable supply of raw materials has become much more important for battery producers amid the deepening crisis in Ukraine,” said Yoon Hyuk-jin, an analyst at SK Securities. “Korean battery makers need more of these upstream investments for their long-term competitiveness in order to reduce their reliance on Chinese materials.”


	Please use the sharing tools found via the share button at the top or side of articles. Copying articles to share with others is a breach of FT.com T&Cs and Copyright Policy. Email licensing@ft.com to buy additional rights. Subscribers may share up to 10 or 20 articles per month using the gift article service. More information can be found at https://www.ft.com/tour.
	https://www.ft.com/content/5a5b1cfb-bc18-44c4-8600-df2d7d6c8b14

	The consortium includes LG Chem, the parent group of LGES, steelmaker Posco, LX International, the commodity trader and miner, and Chinese company Zhejiang Huayou Cobalt.

“We expect the project to improve our battery business capability and profitability by securing competitive raw materials in a stable manner,” LGES said.

The company is also building a $1.1bn battery cell plant in Karawang Regency, 65km south-east of Jakarta, as part of a joint venture with Hyundai Motor group.    

The consortium’s investment was announced days after China’s Contemporary Amperex Technology (CATL), the world’s biggest EV battery maker, signed a $6bn deal with Indonesian companies including Antam to produce a similar project.
