Tuesday, October 18, 2022 - The Minister for Interior of Germany has fired the country's cybersecurity chief after being alleged to have turned a blind eye to a firm linked to Russian security circles.

Reports from security sources confirm that the President of the German Federal Office for Information, Arne Schönbohm, was relieved of his duties immediately on Tuesday. 

Schönbohm, who has been in charge of the agencies since 2016, overseeing the computer and communication security of the government, came under scrutiny after his connections to a Russian company in a previous job were brought to light in a late-night satire show by Jan Böhmermann, who is a German comedian.

Before becoming the Head of the Government cybersecurity agency, Schönbohm had helped found the similarly named Cyber Security Council Germany; a group registered as a voluntary association.

Source: The Guardian
Saturday, October 29, 2022 – The Russian Minister for Defence announced that it would suspend its participation in the brokered grain export deal of the United Nations with Ukraine after the Crimean city of Sevastopol was attacked by a drone. Though the report from Russia cannot be independently verified, Russia blames Kyiv for the attacks.

On Saturday, Russia was accused by a top Ukrainian official of inventing "fictitious terrorist attacks" on its facilities in Crimea, and Moscow is also accused of blackmail. In a telegram post, the head Ukrainian President's office, Andrii Yerma, blames Russia for "nuclear blackmail, energy blackmail, and food blackmail."

In July, Ministers from Ukraine and Russia signed an agreement brokered by the United Nations and Turkey following months of negotiations. Russia promised to unblock the Black Sea's port to allow the safe passage of grain and oilseeds, some of the most important exports of Ukraine.

Source: CNN
Wednesday, November 16, 2022 – Ukraine has confirmed it faced fierce attacks in the east from forces of Russia that were reinforced with troops withdrawn from Kherson in the south. On the other hand, NATO and Poland have concluded that the missile crash in Poland was probably a stray fired by Ukraine’s air defenses.

Officials said the government in Kyiv was working to restore power across the country on Wednesday after an intense Russian strike struck civilian infrastructure.

On Wednesday, ambassadors of NATO held emergency talks to respond to the blast that killed two people on Tuesday at a grain facility in Poland close to the Ukrainian border, the first deadly extension of the war into the western alliance.

The President of Poland, Andrzej Duda, said, “from the information gathered, it was an S-300 rocket made in the Soviet Union, an old rocket and there is no evidence that Russia launched it.”

Source: Reuters 
OTTAWA — Federal Innovation Minister François-Philippe Champagne is selling Canada’s battery-supply chain prowess in Asia again this week, but this time he has a new boast in his back pocket.

Research firm BloombergNEF pushed Canada’s position in its annual global ranking of battery-producing countries ahead of everyone else but China.

“That’s something I’m going to use very much on my trip in Asia, to say we have what Asia needs,” Champagne said.

The survey ranks 30 countries with a significant presence in the industry, be it in the mining of raw materials to the production of batteries and their component parts.

The first version in 2020 ranked Canada fourth, and in 2021 fifth, after mining outputs fell and regulatory hurdles mounted.

But Canada has announced more than $15 billion in investments over the past 10 months in areas ranging from critical mineral mining and processing to battery component manufacturing, electric vehicle production and the country’s first gigafactory.

That helped Canada climb past Sweden, Germany and the United States, even with the latter’s massive investments under the Inflation Reduction Act.

“I think this is a home run for Canada in the sense that the vision was really to build an ecosystem from mine to recycling, and now it’s taking shape and what we’re doing now is to optimize it,” Champagne said.

His trips this week to Japan and South Korea, along with next week’s planned stops in Germany, are in that vein. He has already met with key industry players in those countries multiple times both in Canada and abroad, but he says he’s focused on consolidating those relationships and continuing to make Canada’s case as a presence in the field.

The battery-supply chain has many links, starting with mining of the raw materials like lithium, nickel, aluminum and copper used to make batteries. Those minerals and metals are then refined so they can be used to make the components of battery cells — namely cathodes, anodes and electrolytes.

The components are then pulled together to make battery cells — which resemble the same alkaline non-rechargeable batteries most consumers are familiar with — and then gigafactories package those cells together in large numbers to make battery packs that run everything from laptops and cellphones to electric cars.

The BloombergNEF report looks at all of those supply chain parts, as well as demand for the end product and environmental stewardship.

Canada gets among the highest marks on keeping the supply chain green, thanks in part to a generous supply of renewable energy but also to environmental regulations on mining. The BloombergNEF survey also credited Canada for its efforts to boost mining activity.

Canada is still lagging on battery cell and component manufacturing and domestic demand for electric vehicles, but there have been many announcements in the last year improving both.

Vic Fedeli, Ontario’s minister of economic development, told The Canadian Press following a trip to meet with industry stakeholders in Germany last month that one of Canada’s biggest selling points is its access to the raw materials needed to make batteries.

“They talk about our critical minerals and that’s when we know we’ve got their genuine interest because there’s such a finite amount of active critical mineral producers outside of China,” he said. “We really have a captive audience.”

While Canada is not the biggest producer of any of the main metals and minerals needed for batteries, it is one of the few places in the world capable of producing all of them.

Canada and its allies are also trying to prevent China from using its dominance in the battery supply chain industry to throw its weight around in global politics. They have likened it to Europe being too reliant on Russia for gas.

Having started investing in the sphere more than a decade ago, China is now home to three-quarters of all battery cell manufacturing capacity and 90 per cent of anode and electrolyte production.

Its raw mineral production isn’t always the highest, but it has invested heavily in mines in other countries, including in Canada, to bring those products to China for refining and use in manufacturing. The U.S. Geological Survey said China produced about four per cent of the world’s nickel last year but refined more than two-thirds of it.

It mined about 14 per cent of the lithium produced in 2021 but refined 59 per cent.

Canada is starting to take steps to limit China’s influence within the domestic supply chain. Earlier this month, Champagne said Canada will limit the involvement of foreign-owned state companies in the critical mineral sector, and a week later ordered three Chinese companies to sell their interests in small Canadian firms.

But there are many more, including the only currently operating lithium mine in Canada. The Tanco mine in Manitoba is owned by China-based Sinomine Resource Group.

Champagne wouldn’t say what other orders will come, but did hint at additional announcements.

“I’ll be like a hawk looking at these transactions to make sure that we protect the national and economic security of Canadians,” he said.

