Friday, May 27, 2022 - Russian businessman Andrey Melnichenko handed over ownership of two of the world's largest coal and Fertilizer companies to his wife the day before he was sanctioned by the European Union, according to reports.

The legal filings reviewed before March 8 show that Melnichenko was the owner of the two companies through a chain of trusts and corporations stretching from Moscow and the Swiss Town of Zug to Cyprus and Bermuda.

When Russia's invasion of Ukraine began in February, Melnichenko was concerned he would be identified under the European Union's Russia sanction regime. Melnichenko notified trustees of his retirement as the beneficiary and made his wife the beneficiary. 

Melnichenko, with an estimated fortune of $18 billion, was ranked as Russia's eighth richest man last year by Forbes.

Source: Reuters 
Wednesday, May 4, 2022 - Ukrainian refugees stuck within the Azovstal steel and iron plant in Mariupol recount horror stories when they were finally able to escape the steelwork’s tunnels and underground areas. After over 100 evacuees had to take cover with Ukrainian forces when the Russians moved forward and forced locals into hiding within the plant, this makeshift bunker was running out of food and water, and its stability was being questioned as the bombs rained down.

Babies, children, and dogs were included in the numbers trapped there, with mothers, fathers, and family members hunkering down and fearing the worst. However, this group of evacuees have been rescued and welcomed back onto Ukrainian-held soil in Zaporizhzhia, with reports that many believed “…we wouldn’t get out of there.”
Source: The Guardian
Monday, April 11, 2022 - Texas continues to experience incredibly bad weather severe storms continue from last week, including thunderstorms, wind, and widespread showers. Along with this adverse weather, several tornadoes were formed in the wake of the storms as they passed with a series of twisters formed just north of Austin, Texas. Some of the funnel clouds were incredibly wide and were accompanied by hail the size of baseballs or oranges, pelting down on several rural areas, including Bell county. According to witnesses and residents alike, the tornadoes wreaked an insurmountable amount of damage, destroying houses, uprooting trees, and eliminating power supplies throughout the area, injuring 23 people. The state of Iowa, 900 miles away, has also issued tornado warnings.
Source: New York Post
Chrysler parent Stellantis plans to get a substantial amount of the lithium needed for its electric vehicle batteries from a former tourist mecca in California.

The automaker announced a deal Thursday with Controlled Thermal Resources, which has offices in California and Australia, to supply “battery grade lithium hydroxide” for use in EV production in North America. That means Stellantis, which also controls the Jeep, Ram, Dodge, Fiat, Alfa Romeo and Maserati brands, will join General Motors, which announced a similar agreement last year, in tapping Controlled Thermal’s expected lithium production in the Salton Sea Basin, an area near the U.S. border with Mexico.

The Salton Sea, which was created in 1905 by an accidental outflow from the Colorado River, once attracted large numbers of visitors. Pollution and high levels of salinity, however, eventually helped end its status as a major tourist destination, according to California.com.

More recently, the area has made headlines for its potential to supply significant quantities of lithium, a key material used in EV batteries.

Controlled Thermal’s "Hell’s Kitchen Project," which is located in California’s Imperial County, would recover lithium from underground in a process said to be more environmentally sustainable than other types of lithium production, which use evaporation ponds and open pit mines. The process would be paired with geothermal production of electricity. Power generation is expected to begin in 2023, with lithium production beginning in 2024, according to the company.

The news on the Stellantis deal prompted a mention from President Joe Biden in a statement, which said the arrangement “sets the U.S. on a path to being a leading producer of sustainably sourced, low carbon lithium.”

Finding more sustainable methods for securing lithium and other battery materials is becoming a focus for automakers. In September, Ford and Redwood Materials, which is run by Tesla co-founder J.B. Straubel, announced a deal on battery recycling that would also help improve Ford’s battery supply chain.

“Ensuring we have a robust, competitive, and low-carbon lithium supply from various partners around the world will enable us to meet our aggressive electric vehicle production plans in a responsible manner,” Tavares said in a news release.

Controlled Thermal CEO Rod Colwell also cheered the deal.

“Securing clean lithium produced with energy from a renewable resource helps to further decarbonize the battery supply chain, which, in turn, delivers cleaner cars with less environmental impact. We look forward to a strong and successful relationship with Stellantis.”

The deal “does not complete our global supply needs. It covers a significant portion of our North American needs. We still have more sourcing to do to reach our global capacity needs,” Morgan said.

The automaker said it has a similar production deal to supply its European operations. The Stellantis Dare Forward 2030 business plan, announced in March, envisions annual global sales of 5 million battery electric vehicles by 2030. Additionally, the automaker is aiming for all of its passenger car sales in Europe and half of its passenger car and light-duty truck sales in North America to be battery electric vehicles by the end of the decade.

The automaker has also announced plans to build EV battery plants in Windsor, Ontario, and Kokomo, Indiana, to supply its North American vehicle production. On Thursday, the automaker and South Korea’s LG Energy Solution, its partner on the Windsor project, announced NextStar Energy Inc. as the name of their battery joint venture company, with Danies Lee as CEO. Lee “has held a series of global and regional sales and marketing roles for the promotion of lithium-ion batteries at LG Chem since 2001,” according to a news release.

