Monday, April 11, 2022 - For yet another day, the Philippines has been battered by the first tropical storm of the season, named Megi. This weather system formed during a low-pressure front last week, over the Western Pacific Ocean, and has been wreaking havoc on the island chains ever since. Though tropical storms are a common occurrence in that hemisphere, they are typically expected during the Philippines’ “wet” or typhoon season, which lasts between July and November. As this is currently the “dry” season for this country, experiencing a storm of this magnitude is out of the ordinary. Tropical Storm Megi is likely a result of the consistent climate change the globe continues to experience, and has so far caused dangerous flooding, high winds, and even catastrophic landslides in rural or mountainous areas. Sadly, the storm has also claimed the lives of at least 25 individuals.
Source: CNN
Wednesday, June 22, 2022 – The pace at which prices grow in the UK increased to 9.1% in May from 9% in April, according to the Office for National Statistics (ONS). 

The greatest causes of inflation are the cost of fuel and energy. Workers and unions are fighting for pay increases to deal with rising prices. 

However, to avoid an “inflationary spiral” akin to the 1970s, where businesses raise wages and subsequently pass the cost on to customers through higher prices, the government has cautioned against employers awarding significant pay raises.

The Bank of England warned that inflation may hit 11 percent this year as it is currently at its highest level since March 1982, when it also stood at 9.1 percent.

According to experts, raising interest rates is one way to slow the rate at which prices rise. The goal is to raise borrowing costs to encourage people to borrow less, spend less, and save more.

Source: BBC 
Thursday, May 5, 2022 - Twenty-two people have been reported dead and 40 people injured in a devastating flood in Kabul recently. The country is currently experiencing a humanitarian crisis and struggling to cope with the incidence.

The flood hit 12 provinces, a third of the provinces in the country but was more severe in the western provinces of Badghis and Fyrab and the Northern Province of Baghlan.

Apart from the death toll, 500 houses were destroyed, 2000 damaged, and 3000 acres of crops were lost to the flood. 

A Taliban Official mentioned that the Red Cross was helping out, and officials would approach other charitable international organizations for help to alleviate the situation. However, concerns about the illegitimacy of the Taliban have made the international community wonder how to help the country’s citizens without benefiting the Taliban.

Source: Reuters 
Chinese companies that produce raw materials for electric vehicle batteries show indications of using forced labor, according to a report from The New York Times.

The newspaper reported that mining conglomerate Xinjiang Nonferrous Metal Industry employs hundreds of Uyghurs, an ethnic minority in China, as part of a so-called work transfer program.

The Times reported China has acknowledged running such a program that moves Uyghurs and other ethnic minorities from the south of Xinjiang to the north to work in industrial jobs.

In response to a CNBC request for comment, Liu Pengyu, a spokesperson for the Chinese embassy in the U.S., said allegations of forced labor are “a big lie.”

“It is a lie against logic, against facts and against legal principles,” he said in an email, adding that people are not forced to be a “transferred laborers” in Xinjiang.

The U.S. State Department previously noted, citing an independent researcher, that transferred workers are at risk of being subjected to forced labor. It has also previously cited Chinese academic publications that “described labor transfers as a crucial means to fragment Uyghur society and mitigate the ‘negative’ impact of religion.”

In social media posts translated by the Times, Xinjiang Nonferrous said workers from mostly Muslim minorities were lectured on “eradicating religious extremism” and becoming workers who “embraced their Chinese nationhood.”

Chinese authorities have repeatedly denied that the country imprisons or enslaves Uyghurs. On Tuesday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said the claims of forced labor in Xinjiang are a “huge lie made up by anti-China forces to denigrate China.” He said the rights of workers of all ethnic groups in Xinjiang are duly protected.

Xinjiang Nonferrous Metal Industry produces minerals and metals, including lithium, nickel and copper. It has exported metals to the United States, Germany, U.K., Japan and India, the Times reported. It’s unclear whether these relationships are ongoing, however, the New York Times reported.

The report was published on the eve of the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act taking effect in the United States. The legislation bans goods made with forced labor in Xinjiang from entering the U.S. market.

The Times reported that thousands of companies could have some link to Xinjiang in their supply chains. If fully enforced, many products, including some needed for electric vehicles, may be stopped at the border.