Tuesday, August 30, 2022 – In the southern part of China, Shenzhen shut down the most prominent electronic market in the world and had public transport suspended nearby as authorities enforced neighborhood-wide lockdowns in response to a small number of Covid cases.

According to the district government, Huaqianbei, a busy shopping area home to thousands of stalls selling computer components, mobile phones parts, and microchips, is among three neighborhoods placed under a mandatory four-day lockdown in the Futian district.

China is one of the places in the world still enforcing stringent zero-Covid measures. Except for supermarkets, pharmacies, and hospitals in the affected area, all businesses are shut down through Thursday. Restaurant dining is also suspended, with only takeaways allowed. 

Due to the heavy-handed approach, dozens of neighborhoods across Shenzhen have been identified as "high-risk areas" and placed under strict lockdown orders.

Source: CNN
Wednesday, August 3, 2022 – The US House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, the most senior US politician to visit Taiwan in 25 years, departed on Wednesday after meeting with leaders in Taipei’s capital. 

The Chinese government accused the United States of violating China’s sovereignty under the disguise of democracy. Wang Yi, Foreign Minister of China, said, “those who play with fire will not come to a good end, and those who offend China will be punished.” 

In a statement following the visit, Nancy Pelosi said that China cannot “prevent world leaders or anyone from traveling to Taiwan to pay respect to its flourishing democracy, highlight its many successes, and reaffirm our commitment to continued collaboration.” 

Pelosi’s visit was not approved by her party colleague, President Joe Biden, who had said the American military felt it was “not a good idea right now” considering the high tension between the two countries.

Source: BBC 
Sunday, July 3, 2022 – Thousands of people in low-lying areas around Sydney were forced to leave their homes as a result of the third severe flooding storm to hit the region since March. The storms, according to experts, were due to the “dangers on several fronts.”

As severe downpour battered vast regions of the State, the State Emergency Service responded to more than 1,400 help requests in 24 hours and performed 29 water rescues.

The Hawkesbury-Nepean River breached substantial flood levels earlier than expected at 10.15 on Saturday night. At the same time, the Warragamba Dam spilled “well ahead” of predictions at 2 am on Sunday.

Hopes that the rain would reduce in the coming days were further dashed as the storm is expected to linger until Tuesday. According to experts, “far more heavy rain, forceful, damaging gusts, and shoreline erosion” should also be expected.

Source: The Guardian 
A tax credit in the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 designed to spur adoption of EVs could fail to reach consumers because of the auto industry’s heavy reliance on battery materials and components from China. 

To qualify for the credit, which could effectively shave up to $7,500 off the price of a new EV, the battery and key minerals used in it must be sourced from the US or from countries it has free-trade agreements with. Currently, most lithium-ion cells for EV batteries are built in China, and the US manufactures only about 7%. 

The legislation is an attempt to incentivize companies to build more capacity for mining and battery manufacturing in the US. The restrictions could eventually help build a secure supply chain for batteries in the US and create more manufacturing and mining jobs. But some experts are uncertain how quickly US companies will be able to respond. The danger, then, is that the tax credits could have only a limited impact on EV sales in the near term, if qualifying batteries and the minerals that go into them are in short supply.

There are two major parts to the new rules. First are the limitations around the critical minerals used in the battery, like lithium, nickel, and cobalt. Starting when the tax credits kick in at the start of 2023, 40% of these minerals in the car’s battery must be mined, processed, or recycled in the US or a free-trade partner. This ramps up over time, hitting 80% in 2026.

There’s also guidance about where the battery is actually made—starting in 2023, half the components need to be manufactured or assembled in North America. This reaches 100% by 2029.

Finally, a vehicle can be excluded from the tax credits if any mining, processing, or manufacturing for a battery is done by a “foreign entity of concern.” This requirement takes effect in 2024 for the battery components and in 2025 for critical minerals.

While it’s not clear exactly which countries will count in this definition, the rules are an obvious attempt to slow China’s dominance in the battery business, says Jonas Nahm, a professor of energy, resources, and environment at Johns Hopkins.

However, he adds, the timelines are “hugely ambitious,” and the bill is “basically setting targets that people may be unable to meet.”

Last week, E&E News reported that climate activists are already worried about whether carmakers will be able to satisfy the new requirements.

Battery manufacturing is growing in the US and Europe, and leading domestic car makers, like GM, have recently announced investments to build massive new battery factories. But the US has a lot of catching up to do.

About 80% of lithium-ion battery cells are made in China today. The country also dominates the supply chain for many of the materials used in batteries, including critical minerals, says Henry Sanderson, executive editor at Benchmark Minerals Intelligence.

Almost all the graphite used for battery electrodes comes from China and is processed there, Sanderson says. Lithium, while mined mostly in countries such as Australia and Chile, is processed in China as well.

Nickel could also be difficult to source for automakers hoping to qualify for the credits, Sanderson says, since most of it is processed in Indonesia, which doesn’t have a free-trade agreement with the US.

Planning and building new mines can take upwards of seven years, meaning that mineral supply isn’t something that can change overnight. Recycling could eventually supply a significant amount of battery materials, but it’s unlikely it will make a dent anytime soon, Sanderson says, since the number of EVs reaching the end of their life right now can’t keep up with the exponentially rising demand.

In any case, setting requirements for batteries tied to consumer tax credits won’t be enough to actually transform supply chains, Nahm says. Other supporting programs included in the new bill, like production tax credits and loans for building new factories, will also be key. 

The ambitious EV tax credits could play a role in building domestic battery manufacturing and encouraging new supply chains in the US. But whether those changes will come fast enough to keep up with booming EV sales remains very much an open question—one that will likely determine just how effective the new bill is in transforming the US vehicle fleet.