Liz Truss has announced 65 sanctions, targeting strategic industries, banks and business elites

the sanctions target those aiding Russia’s invasion of Ukraine including the Wagner Group, multiple defence companies and Russian Railways

the UK has now sanctioned over 1,000 individuals and businesses under the Russia sanctions regime since the invasion

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has announced 65 new Russian sanctions today (Thursday 24 March) against a range of key strategic industries and individuals. The UK has now sanctioned over 1,000 individuals and businesses under the Russia sanctions regime since the invasion.

Today’s sanctions target key industries supporting Russia’s illegal invasion, including Russian Railways and defence company Kronshtadt, the main producer of Russian drones. The Wagner Group – the organisation Russian mercenaries reportedly tasked with assassinating President Zelenskyy - has also been sanctioned.

Six more banks are targeted, including Alfa Bank whose cofounders include previously sanctioned oligarchs Mikhail Fridman, Petr Aven and German Khan. The world’s largest diamond producer Alrosa is also sanctioned.

Individuals sanctioned include the billionaire oil tycoon Eugene Shvidler, founder of Tinkoff bank Oleg Tinkov, Herman Gref, the CEO of Russia’s largest bank Sberbank, and Polina Kovaleva, Foreign Minister Lavrov’s step daughter. Galina Danilchenko, who was installed by Russia as the ‘mayor’ of Melitopol is also sanctioned - the first time an individual has been sanctioned for collaboration with Russian forces currently in Ukraine.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said:

Putin should be under no illusions – we are united with our allies and will keep tightening the screw on the Russian economy to help ensure he fails in Ukraine. There will be no let-up.

All those sanctioned today will have their assets in the UK frozen which means no UK citizen or company can do business with them, and individuals subject to travel bans are also prohibited from travelling to or from the UK.

Today’s sanctions will bring the total global asset value of the banks the UK has sanctioned since the invasion to £500 billion and the net worth of the oligarchs and family members in excess of £150 billion.

The provisions brought in by the Economic Crime Act have streamlined the previous legislation so the UK can respond even more swiftly and effectively to the current crisis. The government will continue to tighten the screw and use sanctions to degrade the Russian economy on a scale that the Kremlin, or any major economy, has never seen before.

The UK has led the international sanctions effort, cutting off whole sectors of the Russian economy by targeting its defence companies, its trade and transport sector, and working with allies to exclude Russia from the SWIFT financial system.

Key individuals and businesses sanctioned today
ALFA-BANK JSC (Alfa-Bank), the largest of the private banks in Russia and is based in Moscow. Alfa-Bank ranks among the top 10 largest banks in terms of capital in Russia and Ukraine. It is a distinct entity to distinct from Alfa-Bank (Ukraine) which has not been sanctioned.

Alrosa, the world’s largest diamond mining company specializing in exploration, mining, manufacture, and sale of diamonds. It is headquartered in Mirny, Russia and its market capitalization is reported as an estimated £4.69 billion.

Eugene Markovich Shvidler, is a billionaire businessman with close business links to Roman Abramovich (designated by the UK on 10 March 2022). His net worth is reported as an estimated £1.2 billion.

Oleg Tinkov, founder of Tinkoff Bank. His net worth is reported as an estimated £3.4 billion.

Herman Gref, Chief Executive Officer of Sberbank, the largest Russian bank. Gref is a close advisor of President Putin since they started working together in the St Petersburg Government in the 1990s. He served as Putin’s Minister of Economic Development and Trade between 2000 and 2007, before taking over at Sberbank.

Oleg E Aksyutin, the Deputy Chairman of the Management Board at Gazprom PJSC, the Russian multinational energy corporation.

Didier Casimiro, the First Vice President of Rosneft, the Russian State oil company.

Zeljko Runje, the Deputy Chairman of the Management Board and First Vice President for Oil, Gas, and Offshore Business Development of Rosneft.

Galina Danilchenko, installed as ‘mayor’ of Melitopol by Russian authorities after their military occupied the city and kidnapped the legitimate mayor. This is the first designation by any partner country for collaboration with the Russian military in Ukraine since the invasion.

Polina Kovaleva, stepdaughter of Russian Foreign Minister, Sergey Lavrov. She reportedly owns a c.£4 million property in London. This sends a strong signal that those benefiting from association of those responsible for Russian aggression are in scope of our sanctions.

Background
Asset freeze
An asset freeze prevents any UK citizen, or any business in the UK, from dealing with any funds or economic resources which are owned, held or controlled by the designated person and which are held in the UK. It will also prevent funds or economic resources being provided to or for the benefit of the designated person.

Travel ban
A travel ban means that the designated person must be refused leave to enter or to remain in the United Kingdom, providing the individual to be an excluded person under section 8B of the Immigration Act 1971.

Transport sanctions
Recently introduced powers make it a criminal offence for any Russian aircraft to fly or land in the UK, and give the government powers to remove aircraft belonging to designated Russian individuals and entities from the UK aircraft register, even if the sanctioned individual is not on board. Russian ships are also banned from UK ports.
Burkina Faso: Military coup prompts fears of further instability
President Roch Kabore was deposed amid anger over violence, but analysts say the military coup could unleash more insecurity.
The military coup deposing Burkina Faso’s President Roch Kabore is the fourth in a string of recent military takeovers in West and Central Africa, prompting fears of further regional instability.

Mutinous soldiers demanding more support for their fight against armed groups announced on Monday that they had toppled the democratically elected president.

While the takeover sparked widespread international condemnation, it was greeted with significant support in Burkina Faso.

“Kabore lost the confidence of Burkinabe citizens, there is no doubt in that,” Daniel Eizenga, an analyst at the Africa Center for Strategic Studies in Washington, told Al Jazeera.

Yet, whether the takeover can deliver on the popular demand for better security or provide “an opportunity for armed insurgency groups to further build on their operations in the area” remains to be seen, Eizenga added.

Since 2015, Burkina Faso has been fighting armed campaigns by groups linked to al-Qaeda and ISIL (ISIS) that have spilled over from neighbouring Mali.

The number of attacks has risen from nearly 500 in 2020 to more than 1,150 in 2021, placing the country well ahead of Mali’s 684 and Niger’s 149 violent events.

Local security forces and civilians have been the primary victims of the violence by armed groups. More than 1.4 million people have been displaced by the conflict, according to estimates by the United Nations’ refugee agency, the UNHCR.

Alex Vines, who heads the Africa Programme at Chatham House in London, told Al Jazeera the increase in violence in Burkina Faso was preceded by a failed coup in September 2015 targeting the transitional government that followed the resignation of longtime leader Blaise Compaoré.

In its aftermath, “the intelligence and security networks were purged and greatly weakened in a response to that coup attempt”, Vines said.

“So you had a very weakened state in terms of its security apparatus, which provided an easier route for some of these groups to move in.”

Kabore’s People’s Movement for Progress (MPP) party inherited this frail security apparatus when it was elected with 53 percent of the vote in Burkina Faso’s first-ever electoral transfer of power in November 2015.

Since then, armed groups – including the Group for the Support of Islam and Muslims, or JNIM, which is aligned with al-Qaeda, and the Islamic State in the Greater Sahara (ISGS), an offshoot of ISIL – have asserted further control in rural areas and carried out attacks on the capital.

Last year, frustration over the rapidly deteriorating security situation reached a boiling point. In June, Burkina Faso witnessed the worst attack by armed groups in the history of the country when more than 130 civilians were killed in a three-hour onslaught on Solhan, a remote village in Yagha province on the eastern border with Niger, prompting calls to intensify counterterrorism efforts.

No one claimed responsibility for the killings, but government officials said it was the work of ISIL affiliates.

“I bow before the memory of the hundred civilians killed in this barbaric attack,” Kabore said in a televised address as he announced a three-day national mourning period.

A further blow to Kabore’s leadership came in November, when an attack on a gendarmerie post in the northern town of Inata killed 49 officers and four civilians.

The Inata attack “spelled Kabore’s demise”, according to Constantin Gouvy, an analyst at Clingendael’s Conflict Research Unit in The Hague.

Reports that officers had gone for weeks without food provisions and adequate equipment sparked protests and widespread popular indignation. Additionally, in an effort to quell the calls for his resignation and shore up support within the army, Kabore appointed Lieutenant-Colonel Paul-Henri Sandaogo Damiba as commander of Burkina Faso’s third military region, tasked with protecting the capital Ouagadougou from attacks.

Ironically, Gouvy said, the man called upon by Kabore to rescue his democratically elected government turned out to be the leader of the military coup that deposed him on Monday.

Kabore’s whereabouts remain unknown, despite statements by the military government that detained officials were being held “in a secure place”.

Damiba was named the leader of the newly established Patriotic Movement for Safeguard and Restoration (MPSR).

In contrast to the deposed president, Damiba has sought to present himself as an expert in countering terrorism. A graduate of the military academy in Paris, he is the author of a book titled West African Armies and Terrorism: Uncertain Responses? in which he analysed anti-terrorism strategies in the Sahel region and their limits.

However, his plan for battling the armed groups remains unclear.

“There is a lot that is still unknown, including how he justifies that he would be better at dealing with the situation than Kabore,” Gouvy said.

“He has military experience but it’s unlikely that just a change in leadership will solve the issue,” including the army’s funding problem, he added.

‘No guarantee’ for rights

Kabore’s removal was welcomed by hundreds of Burkinabe on the streets of Ouagadougou on Tuesday. Among the crowd, some also welcomed the coup as a liberation from the country’s former colonial power, France.

Paris had expanded its military cooperation with Burkina Faso at President Kabore’s request, including the country in its Operation Barkhane battling armed groups in Africa’s Sahel region. Its intervention sparked some criticism among citizens and state officials in Burkina Faso.

Pro-military demonstrators also held Russian flags, calling for an intervention similar to that that occurred in the Central African Republic, where Russian mercenaries fought off an armed uprising last year.

Russia has also admitted providing military assistance through state channels in Mali, despite Bamako denying the presence of Russian mercenaries from the Wagner Group following allegations by Western powers.

No indication has yet emerged as to whether Damiba may turn to Russia for security cooperation. However, Vines said Moscow has been looking to position itself as an alternative to Western intervention in a context where discontent is simmering.

“Burkina Faso could be a logical place for the Russians to also work with the junta,” Vines said, adding however that Moscow risks becoming enmeshed in the politics of authoritarian regimes and progressively isolated by democratic governments in the continent.

The 15-country West African bloc the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) will hold a special session on Friday to discuss how to respond to the fourth military coup in the past year, after Mali, Chad and Guinea.

“There is concern among ECOWAS members that this [trend] could spread even further,” Gouvy said, adding that the bloc is likely carefully considering its toolbox.

Harsh sanctions imposed on Mali after coup leader Assimi Goita announced a five-year delay to return to constitutional rule turned out to be “a double-edged sword” as they have lent the military government more support, Gouvy said.

Damiba has pledged to return to Burkina Faso constitutional rule “within a reasonable time”.

But according to Eizenga, the coup marks a dangerous departure from the democratic path the country had embarked on after 27 years of Compaoré’s rule.

“People [in Burkina Faso] felt like they had been demanding change and they hadn’t been receiving it and that’s a policy failure,” Eizenga said. “But coups d’etat fundamentally disrupt [the democratic process] by putting unelected officials in power by force.”

“There is then no guarantee for citizens’ rights and their civil liberties.”



Monday, February 28, 2022 – Lismore, a regional city in New South Wales, Australia, has seen continued rescue efforts. State Emergency Services has also encouraged everyone along the whole New South Wales coast to prepare to evacuate, with spokesperson Adam Jones predicting rapid flooding.

The premier also stated that emergency services were doing "all we can to give help and support as fast and securely as possible," with the state enlisting the assistance of flood rescue professionals from South Australia and Victoria.

Though it is too early to determine the entire extent of the destruction, accounts of survival, loss, and near misses have begun to surface, with some individuals claiming to have lost everything.

Northern Rivers resident John Vanderstok claimed officials were stunned by the size of the rescue operation as he joined a flotilla of private boats rescuing residents stuck in flooded houses around town today.

Source: The Guardian 
Thursday, February 24, 2022 – Russian troops have begun an attack on Ukraine, with reports of troops crossing the border to the north and south, multiple explosions in the cities of Ukraine, including Kyiv, and Russia’s President, Vladimir Putin, warned of bloodshed if Ukrainian forces do not lay down their arms.

Russia’s offense, which they named a special military operation, came as world leaders attempted to avert catastrophe with a meeting of the United Nations Security Council amid warnings that the biggest war in Europe since 1945 could start due to an invasion.

With the first bast coming around 5 a.m. on Thursday, it prompted immediate condemnation from the United State and its allies, which have threatened sanctions in response to Russian military aggression.

Ukrainian Armed Forces General Staff confirmed that, early on Thursday, they had shot down five aircraft and a helicopter which belonged to Russia. But Ukraine’s claim has been denied by Russia.

Volkswagen and tier one supplier Robert Bosch have agreed to establish a joint venture by the end of 2022 to expand the production of lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles (EVs) in Europe.

The unit set up by the two companies will look to supply integrated battery production systems and maintenance support for battery cell and system manufacturers.

European battery production is set to increase dramatically by 2030, by which time installed annual capacity is expected to hit 700 gigawatt hours (GWh). VW alone aims to have six battery making facilities in operation by then.

CEO of Volkswagen Group Components, Thomas Schmall, said that Europe has the “unique chance to become a global battery powerhouse in the years to come”. He added that there is a growing demand for all aspects of battery production, including new gigafactories.

Schmall believes the joint venture with Bosch will also help establish a fully localised European supply chain for e-mobility made in Europe.

Bosch is the world’s biggest automotive supplier and one of the leading suppliers of factory equipment. Working with VW it expects to supply the entire range of processing equipment and components required for the large-scale manufacturing of battery cells and systems.

Rolf Najork, head of Bosch, said: “The European industry has the potential to become a technology driver for the ecological transformation of the economy.”

A rising Europe
The deal marks a significant shift for Bosch, which sold its cell chemistry division in 2018 and withdrew from the research into materials and processes of battery cells for electric vehicles. Bosch cited the risky high investment costs of setting up a production facility.

However, following the new deal with Volkswagen, the scale required to re-enter the growing battery production field may now be possible.

“In creating a European battery supply chain, joint ventures, partnerships and collaborations are increasingly important, but especially so in Europe where there is not the established knowledge base compared to Asia,” said Daniel Harrison, analyst for the business intelligence unit, Automotive, at Ultima Media.

However, there is now a concerted effort being made to establish battery production more firmly in Europe. Harrison highlighted by example Automotive Cells Company (ACC), which has plans for two gigafactories in France and Germany, and already has a pilot plant running in Nersac, France. ACC is now owned by Stellantis, Mercedes-Benz and TotalEnergies’ subsidiary Saft, and provides a clue to the future of the more vertically integrated business many think necessary to increase battery production in Europe and challenge the dominance of the Asian markets.

Sharing expertise
Tier one suppliers such as Bosch, Borgwarner and Dräxlmeier are putting more resources and investment into becoming large-scale lithium-ion battery suppliers as the shift to electric powertrains accelerates.

“Partnerships can and should extend beyond just the OEM and tier two cell suppliers, and also include the expertise of the tier one suppliers,” said Harrison. “They are often involved in the design of the batteries and integrating the complete battery system, as well as the EV powertrain and platform, as we see here with the agreement between VW and Bosch.”

It is becoming imperative that joint ventures such as the one between VW and Bosch extend products and services to all parts of the supply chain, including upstream to the battery components and raw materials. In doing so they can help to secure the supply of finished products at time of highly competitive demand for resources. There are also opportunities to provide services in battery recycling, reuse at the end of the vehicle lifecycle, and even in terms of EV charging infrastructure.

This comes just as Europe struggles to catch up with Asia, particularly China, on battery production. European companies are not just looking to scale up productivity but also bring supply chains closer to home.

According to Harrison, localisation of the battery supply chain is increasing for a variety of reasons: reducing logistics costs and carbon footprint; helping to meet future EU mandates around rules of origin and sustainability; ensuring security of supply in times of disruption, capturing the lucrative battery value chain for Europe; and ultimately to lower the costs for battery production and the EVs in which they are installed.

The efforts to build batteries in Europe rather than rely on Asian imports is exemplified by VW’s behaviour in recent years. It recently increased its ownership in Northvolt and acquired the battery maker’s shares in a 50/50 joint venture, Northvolt Zwei, in Salzgitter, Germany. That followed a previous announcement with Northvolt to construct a 16GWh battery-production facility in Lower Saxony by 2024.

VW is also making batteries at its Braunschweig (Brunswick) components plant in Germany for supply to the Zwickau EV assembly plant. The cells are delivered to Braunschweig from LG Chem’s plant in Wroclaw in Poland.