Wednesday, June 29, 2022 – NATO will strengthen its military presence across Europe in reaction to the War between Russia and Ukraine. New US warships will be deployed to Spain, fighters to the UK, and ground soldiers to Romania.

NATO leader Jens Stoltenberg says the organization is undergoing its largest revamp since the Cold War. In reaction to the war, more than 300,000 troops will be on high readiness alert next year, up from the current 40,000.

The US will strengthen its presence across the continent, especially in eastern Europe, where its 5th Army Corps will be headquartered. Biden said NATO is “needed more than ever, and we mean it when we say an attack on one is an attack against all.”

The Russian Federation is the biggest danger to partners’ security and Euro-Atlantic peace and stability, according to NATO.

Source: BBC
Thursday, May 5, 2022 - Twenty-two people have been reported dead and 40 people injured in a devastating flood in Kabul recently. The country is currently experiencing a humanitarian crisis and struggling to cope with the incidence.

The flood hit 12 provinces, a third of the provinces in the country but was more severe in the western provinces of Badghis and Fyrab and the Northern Province of Baghlan.

Apart from the death toll, 500 houses were destroyed, 2000 damaged, and 3000 acres of crops were lost to the flood. 

A Taliban Official mentioned that the Red Cross was helping out, and officials would approach other charitable international organizations for help to alleviate the situation. However, concerns about the illegitimacy of the Taliban have made the international community wonder how to help the country’s citizens without benefiting the Taliban.

Source: Reuters 
Thursday, June 9, 2022 - US-based scientist Dr. Mike McPhaden met with colleagues in Australia and gave a public session on the current state of the Pacific and what it means for months ahead in Sydney this week.

Scientists and meteorologists are fixated on a particular part of the tropical Pacific Ocean known as Nino 3.4, where the surface temperatures are used to determine the occurrence of either El Nino or La Nina. 

El Niños are associated with above-average temperatures in the tropical Pacific. They tend to bring hotter and drier weather to Australia's east coast. La Ninas are connected to below-average temperatures in that ocean region. They are associated with greater rainfall and lower temperatures. 

According to McPhaden, triple La Ninas are very rare, with the last one occurring more than 20 years ago. If the coming storm is a triple La Nina, it has the potential to continue into 2023. He also said that global heating plays a role in the current weather events. However, scientists are still trying to understand how the climate could affect the events and activities of the storm.

Source: The Guardian
GM has signed a multi-year sourcing agreement for the supply of cobalt from Glencore’s mining operation in Australia. Both are members of the Responsible Minerals Initiative

Cobalt is an important metal in the production of EV batteries. The material processed from Australia will be used in GM’s Ultium battery cathodes, which will support models such as the Chevrolet Silverado EV, GMC Hummer EV and Cadillac LYRIQ.  

“GM and our suppliers are building an EV ecosystem that is focused on sourcing critical raw materials in a secure sustainable manner,” said Jeff Morrison, GM vice president, Global Purchasing and Supply Chain. “Importantly, given the critical role of EVs in reducing the carbon footprint of the transportation sector, this agreement is aligned with our approach to responsible sourcing and supply chain management.”