Wednesday, June 15, 2022 - President Xi of the People’s Republic of China has signed a legal order to allow activities in disputed territorial waters. which the State Media as “military activities other than war.”

Chinese foreign ministry officials staked a claim to the Taiwan Strait, and their spokesperson says China has “sovereignty, sovereign rights, and jurisdiction over the Taiwan Strait.” He further accused countries that claim the Strait as international waters of making false claims and attempting to threaten China’s sovereignty and security.

Foreign nations have sailed warships through the Strait on freedom of navigation exercises in recent years, infuriating Beijing.

Ned Price, the US State Department spokesperson, said the Strait is an international waterway with high seas freedoms guaranteed by international law. He expressed that the United States is concerned about China’s aggression in the Strait. However, he emphasized that the US would continue to sail freely in places allowed by international law.

Source: The Guardian
Wednesday, June 22, 2022 – The pace at which prices grow in the UK increased to 9.1% in May from 9% in April, according to the Office for National Statistics (ONS). 

The greatest causes of inflation are the cost of fuel and energy. Workers and unions are fighting for pay increases to deal with rising prices. 

However, to avoid an “inflationary spiral” akin to the 1970s, where businesses raise wages and subsequently pass the cost on to customers through higher prices, the government has cautioned against employers awarding significant pay raises.

The Bank of England warned that inflation may hit 11 percent this year as it is currently at its highest level since March 1982, when it also stood at 9.1 percent.

According to experts, raising interest rates is one way to slow the rate at which prices rise. The goal is to raise borrowing costs to encourage people to borrow less, spend less, and save more.

Source: BBC 
Tuesday, May 24, 2022 – On his tour of Asia visiting allies, President Biden likened Taiwan to the tensions between Russia and Ukraine in a statement that attracted remarks from the Chinese leadership.

For the second time in many months, the US promised unequivocally that the US is prepared to defend Taiwan if China attacked. Before this time, the United States’ position had been vague regarding the situation.

Chinese Foreign Minister said that Taiwan is inseparable from China, and their position on that is not subject to compromise. He mentioned further that the situation in Ukraine is unlike that of Taiwan, urging the US to abide by the One-China Principle. 

The ties that the US has with China acknowledge the principle of the One Chinese government, but at the same time, its Taiwan Relations Act states that the US must provide the island with the means to defend itself.

Source: BBC
Over the past year or so, automakers have been committing billions of dollars to beefing up their production of batteries. Ford is building a plant in Kentucky. General Motors is working with appliance maker LG to develop a battery factory in Michigan.

Last week, Hyundai announced it’s spending $5.5 billion on a battery and electric vehicle plant in Georgia. And this week, Stellantis and Samsung unveiled a plan to build a $2.5 billion facility in Indiana.

If you own an electric car, chances are at least one crucial component in it came from China.

“A majority of battery cells are made in China at this point,” said Kristin Dziczek, a policy adviser at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. “There’s a lot of disruptions in our international supply chains right now,” she said, factoring in COVID lockdowns in China and the war in Ukraine.

Increasingly, car companies want more control over where they get their parts, especially as electric vehicle demand grows.

Gil Tal is director of research at the University of California, Davis, EV research center. He said the federal government is investing in those supply chains too.

President Joe Biden is putting more than $3 billion into the battery supply chain. In a way, the industry’s recent commitments may be angled to help companies grab big slices of these federal grants.

For automakers to transition from making gasoline-powered cars and trucks to EVs requires a lot of upfront investment in new machinery and factories.

“But bringing all the supply chain into the U.S. or having more control on it is a very tall order. And it will take many years,” Tal said.

Actually, building factories where EV batteries can be assembled is the easy part. “The real issue for these companies is access to the raw materials,” said Chris Berry, president of House Mountain Partners.

“Unless you, as an automotive player, have access to lithium and nickel and cobalt and other battery raw materials, it’s going to be really difficult to build out that supply chain structure,” Berry said.

It might only take three or four years to build a factory, but Berry said getting the permits to build a new lithium or nickel mine in the U.S. would probably take closer to 10 years.