Monday, May 23, 2022 – Boris Bondarev, a counselor at the Russian permanent mission to the United Nations in Geneva, resigned from his diplomat position.

Since the war broke out in February, the 20-year veteran has been the only high-level diplomat yet to resign from the Russian foreign ministry. He is the counselor on arms control at the Russian diplomatic mission in Geneva.

He termed the war an aggressive move by Putin that is all about “lies, warmongering, and hatred.” He further emphasized that other diplomats feel the same way about the situation but are unlikely to speak out.

Hillel Neuer, the executive director of the Geneva-based human rights organization UN Watch has commended Bodnarev and urged other diplomats to follow his example.

Bodnarev was asked about a possible return back to Russia following his resignation. He said, “that would not be a very good idea right now.”

Source: The Guardian
Friday, May 27, 2022 - British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Russian President, Vladimir Putin, is making slow but visible progress in the Donbas,  Eastern Ukraine.

Johnson expresses his fear that Putin continues to make progress in Donbas at a high cost to himself and the Russian military. 

The invasion launched by Russia on February 24 is called a "special military operation" to demoralize and "de-nazify its neighbor", but Ukraine and the West say these are false pretexts for a war of aggression.

Johnson said, "the only way there can be an end is for Putin to accept that the denazification of Ukraine has already been achieved, and withdrawing would be with dignity and honor." However, the prime minister clarified that his statement did not mean he supported Russia's premise that there were Nazis in Ukraine.

Source: Reuters
Sunday, June 12, 2022 - South Korean Defense Minister Lee Jong-sup said that his country will boost its defense capabilities by working closely with the United States and Japan to counter North Korea’s nuclear and missile threat.

Lee urged North Korea to immediately end its nuclear weapon and missile programs while speaking at an Asian security meeting in Singapore.   

In his speech at the Shangri-La Dialogue, Lee said, “The South Korean government will strengthen capabilities to better implement the United States’ extended deterrence, and will strengthen the response capabilities of South Korea to deter North Korea’s nuclear and missile threats.”

He also expressed South Korea’s interest in strengthening security cooperation between the US and Japan to respond to North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs. 

Lee said the South Korean government is ready to extend economic support if North Korea could make substantial progress in ending its nuclear program, 

Source: Reuters

	Please use the sharing tools found via the share button at the top or side of articles. Copying articles to share with others is a breach of FT.com T&Cs and Copyright Policy. Email licensing@ft.com to buy additional rights. Subscribers may share up to 10 or 20 articles per month using the gift article service. More information can be found at https://www.ft.com/tour.
	https://www.ft.com/content/5a5b1cfb-bc18-44c4-8600-df2d7d6c8b14

	A South Korean consortium will invest $9bn in Indonesia to build a mines-to-manufacturing electric vehicle supply chain, as battery makers look to reduce their reliance on Chinese suppliers and mitigate commodity price rises following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

The group led by LG Energy Solution, the world’s second-biggest EV battery maker, has signed an agreement with local mining company PT Aneka Tamban (Antam) and Indonesia Battery Corporation.

The project will handle the entire battery production process including smelting and refining nickel, manufacturing precursors, cathode materials and cells, and assembling finished products in the south-east Asian country.

Indonesia is the world’s largest producer of nickel, with about 21mn tonnes of reserves, according to US Geological Survey data.

The deal comes as South Korean battery makers have increased investment in the chemicals and materials used in EV batteries to reduce their dependence on China, the world’s biggest processor of most of the minerals needed for production.

The war in Ukraine has added to the pressure to improve supply chain security. Russia accounts for 11 per cent of the world’s nickel production and prices of crucial commodities have increased significantly since the invasion.

The London Metal Exchange’s three-month nickel price has risen about 60 per cent this year to $33,175 a tonne as of April 14, increasing concern about the growing cost burden of battery makers.

The auto industry’s plans to pivot away from fossil fuel-powered vehicles has been complicated by its heavy reliance on refineries and factories in China, where about 80 per cent of battery materials are processed.

“The stable supply of raw materials has become much more important for battery producers amid the deepening crisis in Ukraine,” said Yoon Hyuk-jin, an analyst at SK Securities. “Korean battery makers need more of these upstream investments for their long-term competitiveness in order to reduce their reliance on Chinese materials.”


	Please use the sharing tools found via the share button at the top or side of articles. Copying articles to share with others is a breach of FT.com T&Cs and Copyright Policy. Email licensing@ft.com to buy additional rights. Subscribers may share up to 10 or 20 articles per month using the gift article service. More information can be found at https://www.ft.com/tour.
	https://www.ft.com/content/5a5b1cfb-bc18-44c4-8600-df2d7d6c8b14

	The consortium includes LG Chem, the parent group of LGES, steelmaker Posco, LX International, the commodity trader and miner, and Chinese company Zhejiang Huayou Cobalt.

“We expect the project to improve our battery business capability and profitability by securing competitive raw materials in a stable manner,” LGES said.

The company is also building a $1.1bn battery cell plant in Karawang Regency, 65km south-east of Jakarta, as part of a joint venture with Hyundai Motor group.    

The consortium’s investment was announced days after China’s Contemporary Amperex Technology (CATL), the world’s biggest EV battery maker, signed a $6bn deal with Indonesian companies including Antam to produce a similar project.
