Friday, June 17, 2022 – China has launched its third aircraft carrier, the first to be designed and built entirely in the country; the event marked a turn in military advance for the Asian superpower.

The launch happened in a Shanghai shipyard. The "Fujian" is more technically advanced than the other Chinese carriers. State broadcaster CCTV said it is the “first catapult carrier wholly designed and built by China.”

In China, the "Liaoning", commissioned in 2012, and the "Shandong", which entered service in 2019, are the two other aircraft carriers. They use a ski-jump-style platform to launch aircraft, unlike the "Fujian", which uses a catapult launcher system.

The Chinese defense minister, Wei Fenghe, warned his US counterpart last week that if Taiwan declared independence, Beijing would “not hesitate to start a war, no matter the cost.”

Source: The Guardian 
Friday, May 27, 2022 - British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Russian President, Vladimir Putin, is making slow but visible progress in the Donbas,  Eastern Ukraine.

Johnson expresses his fear that Putin continues to make progress in Donbas at a high cost to himself and the Russian military. 

The invasion launched by Russia on February 24 is called a "special military operation" to demoralize and "de-nazify its neighbor", but Ukraine and the West say these are false pretexts for a war of aggression.

Johnson said, "the only way there can be an end is for Putin to accept that the denazification of Ukraine has already been achieved, and withdrawing would be with dignity and honor." However, the prime minister clarified that his statement did not mean he supported Russia's premise that there were Nazis in Ukraine.

Source: Reuters
Thursday, June 2, 2022 - For decades, Singapore has relied on Malaysia for a third of its poultry imports. About 3.6 million live chickens are exported to Singapore every month.

In a dramatic turn of events, the Malaysian Prime Minister announced that there would be an embargo on the export of live chickens away from the country. This is an effort to tackle local shortages, which resulted in exorbitant prices.

The ban will affect Singapore hard both because chicken, along with rice, is the country's wildly acclaimed national dish. The locals also say that replacing fresh meat with frozen one will not be sufficient.

Following the news from Malaysia, the Singapore government has assured its citizens that there will be an adequate supply of chicken. However, the local traders say the poultry prices are bound to surge.

The shortage is expected to continue for months. It will be another addition to the list of food shortages that have rocked the entire globe in the past few months.

Sources: CNN 
Over the past year or so, automakers have been committing billions of dollars to beefing up their production of batteries. Ford is building a plant in Kentucky. General Motors is working with appliance maker LG to develop a battery factory in Michigan.

Last week, Hyundai announced it’s spending $5.5 billion on a battery and electric vehicle plant in Georgia. And this week, Stellantis and Samsung unveiled a plan to build a $2.5 billion facility in Indiana.

If you own an electric car, chances are at least one crucial component in it came from China.

“A majority of battery cells are made in China at this point,” said Kristin Dziczek, a policy adviser at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. “There’s a lot of disruptions in our international supply chains right now,” she said, factoring in COVID lockdowns in China and the war in Ukraine.

Increasingly, car companies want more control over where they get their parts, especially as electric vehicle demand grows.

Gil Tal is director of research at the University of California, Davis, EV research center. He said the federal government is investing in those supply chains too.

President Joe Biden is putting more than $3 billion into the battery supply chain. In a way, the industry’s recent commitments may be angled to help companies grab big slices of these federal grants.

For automakers to transition from making gasoline-powered cars and trucks to EVs requires a lot of upfront investment in new machinery and factories.

“But bringing all the supply chain into the U.S. or having more control on it is a very tall order. And it will take many years,” Tal said.

Actually, building factories where EV batteries can be assembled is the easy part. “The real issue for these companies is access to the raw materials,” said Chris Berry, president of House Mountain Partners.

“Unless you, as an automotive player, have access to lithium and nickel and cobalt and other battery raw materials, it’s going to be really difficult to build out that supply chain structure,” Berry said.

It might only take three or four years to build a factory, but Berry said getting the permits to build a new lithium or nickel mine in the U.S. would probably take closer to 10 years.