"Did I just survive a massacre?" asked a young Sudanese man when he answered my call not long after security forces had opened fire on protesters in downtown Khartoum.

Known by his Twitter name Bashy, he told how one of seven people had died last Monday afternoon in the capital.
"I was filming the protesters and walking when a bullet penetrated his chest; he died in front of me. That could have been me!"
In his mid-twenties, and usually with a smile on his face, Bashy has been protesting on the streets for the past three months.
Like many of his contemporaries, he is furious that the military seized power last October, just over two years into an agreement between the generals and a civilian coalition to share power.

Life had been improving and the economic crisis easing as civilian Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok brought Sudan in from the cold following sanctions imposed on the country during the long rule of Omar al-Bashir, accused of using the country to sponsor terrorism.
AFP Sudanese buy bread from a bakery in the capital Khartoum - 11 October 2021AFP
The economic gains of the two-year power-sharing transition have been forfeited by the coup
The former president's military allies ousted him in April 2019 in the wake of mass protests, but they then showed their reluctance to share power with those on the streets when they turned their guns on them in a devastating massacre two months later.
The outcry that followed forced the generals to agree to the transition - but as many suspected, the military was never happy with the arrangement, and the latest coup, they say, has proved them right.
'Vicious cycle'
Bashy, who has been on the front lines of the recent demonstrations documenting the rallies and marches on his social media feeds, says those on the neighbourhood committees co-ordinating the fightback on the streets are mainly young.

AFP Young people play football in the Sahafa neighbourhood in the south of Khartoum, Sudan - 1 November 2021AFP
More than half of Sudan's population have largely only known life under Omar al-Bashir
In fact it is estimated that 61% of Sudan's population is under the age of 25 and they are fed up with what Bashy terms "strong-man rule".
It is a generational conflict with the young wanting a more equitable, peaceful, and democratic future.
"We are different to previous generations," says Bashy.
"We want to stop the cycle, this vicious cycle of military coups and authoritarianism. That is why we protest - because we wish to see the end of this cycle."

Loyalists reinstated
The protesters feel they have legitimacy on their side - and the junta has indeed been dealt a blow by the resignation earlier this month of Mr Hamdok.
In the aftermath of the coup he was put under house arrest - but then signed a new deal with the generals - something his civilian coalition, the Forces for Freedom and Change (FFC), rejected.
Getty Images Gen Abdel Fattah al-Burhan in December 2021Getty Images
Gen Abdel Fattah al-Burhan's attempt to bring the civilian PM on board has backfired
He only lasted six weeks before realising he could not work without the political backing of the FFC.
Some of the economic reforms he brought in - applauded by the international community - were painful for everyone, but his attempts to dismantle the old guard's hold on the economy also ruffled feathers.

Indeed, this week, Sudan's military ruler Gen Abdel Fattah al-Burhan finally appointed a caretaker administration, which includes some of those Bashir loyalists, to steer the country to elections.
Nidal, whose name has been changed to protect her identity, is a seasoned protester - first taking to the streets during the Arab spring when people began to brave the streets.
AFP Sudanese demonstrators carry posters of killed protesters in Khartoum - 30 December 2021AFP
More than 70 people have died and thousands have been injured since October
She believes the military's harsh treatment of the protesters - more than 70 have died so far - is forcing those organising the demonstrations to become more tactical - or more cohesive.
"You can sense the military is doing us a favour - the more of us they kill, helps us the people to come together, reshape our nationalist sentiment and foster a new patriotism for building a new country."

Since independence the armed forces have monopolised any sense of patriotism.
But their actions - in particular those of the former paramilitary unit, the Rapid Support Forces led by Mohamed Hamdan "Hemeti" Dagolo - and their role in the massacre of June 2019 means much of the respect they were once afforded has been lost by young Sudanese.
For Nidal, the demonstrations have had a devastating effect on her family: one of her 18-year-old cousins was shot dead by soldiers in December.
When I spoke to her late one evening this week she had just been to various barricades in Khartoum to round up her many other cousins to check they were all safe.
Yet the situation has just made them all the more determined - because they feel they can really make a difference.

"I am ready to die," she told me.
Trust broken
In mid-January, the junta announced that it was setting up a counter-terrorism force to deal with the security challenges posed by the protests - which are also hitting the economy.
Viewing peaceful protesters as terrorists is seen by many as taking a leaf out of the Bashir-era rule book.
EPA Protesters by bricks at a barricade in Khartoum, Sudan - January 2022EPA
The barricades are organised by neighbourhood committees - and some are blocking key roads
In their statements, the authorities note how many policemen are injured on duty during the nationwide protests - with little regard to the death of demonstrators.

This week, the death of a police brigadier general has been blamed on the protesters, but activists dispute this and say it is being used as an excuse to unleash yet more force.
And this week's violence came after an Al Jazeera channel that had been carrying live feeds of the demonstrations and rallies was banned.
The crackdown on media freedoms has become unrelenting: journalists have been beaten and assaulted, media offices attacked and international media barred.
There has been a flurry of diplomatic activity to break the stalemate, including a consultation process launched by the UN.
But many Sudanese have little faith in the UN, given it backed the failed November pact entered into by Mr Hamdok.

And the protesters just want the military out of any government as they feel the generals are not to be trusted.
"No negotiations, no partnership, no legitimacy" is the rallying cry of the current pro-democracy movement.
Against this backdrop, the Friends of Sudan met this week to try and hammer out a solution.
This group includes the US, the UK, European states and junta allies Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.
Yet both Bashy and Nidal sound unimpressed by such efforts - and they agree the counter-terror force will not cow them.

"We are world class in peaceful resistance, Monday's massacre will not deter us," Bashy said.
"We are not letting them take our blood, sweat and tears and use it for their own gains."
Source: BBC
Burkina Faso: Military coup prompts fears of further instability
President Roch Kabore was deposed amid anger over violence, but analysts say the military coup could unleash more insecurity.
The military coup deposing Burkina Faso’s President Roch Kabore is the fourth in a string of recent military takeovers in West and Central Africa, prompting fears of further regional instability.

Mutinous soldiers demanding more support for their fight against armed groups announced on Monday that they had toppled the democratically elected president.

While the takeover sparked widespread international condemnation, it was greeted with significant support in Burkina Faso.

“Kabore lost the confidence of Burkinabe citizens, there is no doubt in that,” Daniel Eizenga, an analyst at the Africa Center for Strategic Studies in Washington, told Al Jazeera.

Yet, whether the takeover can deliver on the popular demand for better security or provide “an opportunity for armed insurgency groups to further build on their operations in the area” remains to be seen, Eizenga added.

Since 2015, Burkina Faso has been fighting armed campaigns by groups linked to al-Qaeda and ISIL (ISIS) that have spilled over from neighbouring Mali.

The number of attacks has risen from nearly 500 in 2020 to more than 1,150 in 2021, placing the country well ahead of Mali’s 684 and Niger’s 149 violent events.

Local security forces and civilians have been the primary victims of the violence by armed groups. More than 1.4 million people have been displaced by the conflict, according to estimates by the United Nations’ refugee agency, the UNHCR.

Alex Vines, who heads the Africa Programme at Chatham House in London, told Al Jazeera the increase in violence in Burkina Faso was preceded by a failed coup in September 2015 targeting the transitional government that followed the resignation of longtime leader Blaise Compaoré.

In its aftermath, “the intelligence and security networks were purged and greatly weakened in a response to that coup attempt”, Vines said.

“So you had a very weakened state in terms of its security apparatus, which provided an easier route for some of these groups to move in.”

Kabore’s People’s Movement for Progress (MPP) party inherited this frail security apparatus when it was elected with 53 percent of the vote in Burkina Faso’s first-ever electoral transfer of power in November 2015.

Since then, armed groups – including the Group for the Support of Islam and Muslims, or JNIM, which is aligned with al-Qaeda, and the Islamic State in the Greater Sahara (ISGS), an offshoot of ISIL – have asserted further control in rural areas and carried out attacks on the capital.

Last year, frustration over the rapidly deteriorating security situation reached a boiling point. In June, Burkina Faso witnessed the worst attack by armed groups in the history of the country when more than 130 civilians were killed in a three-hour onslaught on Solhan, a remote village in Yagha province on the eastern border with Niger, prompting calls to intensify counterterrorism efforts.

No one claimed responsibility for the killings, but government officials said it was the work of ISIL affiliates.

“I bow before the memory of the hundred civilians killed in this barbaric attack,” Kabore said in a televised address as he announced a three-day national mourning period.

A further blow to Kabore’s leadership came in November, when an attack on a gendarmerie post in the northern town of Inata killed 49 officers and four civilians.

The Inata attack “spelled Kabore’s demise”, according to Constantin Gouvy, an analyst at Clingendael’s Conflict Research Unit in The Hague.

Reports that officers had gone for weeks without food provisions and adequate equipment sparked protests and widespread popular indignation. Additionally, in an effort to quell the calls for his resignation and shore up support within the army, Kabore appointed Lieutenant-Colonel Paul-Henri Sandaogo Damiba as commander of Burkina Faso’s third military region, tasked with protecting the capital Ouagadougou from attacks.

Ironically, Gouvy said, the man called upon by Kabore to rescue his democratically elected government turned out to be the leader of the military coup that deposed him on Monday.

Kabore’s whereabouts remain unknown, despite statements by the military government that detained officials were being held “in a secure place”.

Damiba was named the leader of the newly established Patriotic Movement for Safeguard and Restoration (MPSR).

In contrast to the deposed president, Damiba has sought to present himself as an expert in countering terrorism. A graduate of the military academy in Paris, he is the author of a book titled West African Armies and Terrorism: Uncertain Responses? in which he analysed anti-terrorism strategies in the Sahel region and their limits.

However, his plan for battling the armed groups remains unclear.

“There is a lot that is still unknown, including how he justifies that he would be better at dealing with the situation than Kabore,” Gouvy said.

“He has military experience but it’s unlikely that just a change in leadership will solve the issue,” including the army’s funding problem, he added.

‘No guarantee’ for rights

Kabore’s removal was welcomed by hundreds of Burkinabe on the streets of Ouagadougou on Tuesday. Among the crowd, some also welcomed the coup as a liberation from the country’s former colonial power, France.

Paris had expanded its military cooperation with Burkina Faso at President Kabore’s request, including the country in its Operation Barkhane battling armed groups in Africa’s Sahel region. Its intervention sparked some criticism among citizens and state officials in Burkina Faso.

Pro-military demonstrators also held Russian flags, calling for an intervention similar to that that occurred in the Central African Republic, where Russian mercenaries fought off an armed uprising last year.

Russia has also admitted providing military assistance through state channels in Mali, despite Bamako denying the presence of Russian mercenaries from the Wagner Group following allegations by Western powers.

No indication has yet emerged as to whether Damiba may turn to Russia for security cooperation. However, Vines said Moscow has been looking to position itself as an alternative to Western intervention in a context where discontent is simmering.

“Burkina Faso could be a logical place for the Russians to also work with the junta,” Vines said, adding however that Moscow risks becoming enmeshed in the politics of authoritarian regimes and progressively isolated by democratic governments in the continent.

The 15-country West African bloc the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) will hold a special session on Friday to discuss how to respond to the fourth military coup in the past year, after Mali, Chad and Guinea.

“There is concern among ECOWAS members that this [trend] could spread even further,” Gouvy said, adding that the bloc is likely carefully considering its toolbox.

Harsh sanctions imposed on Mali after coup leader Assimi Goita announced a five-year delay to return to constitutional rule turned out to be “a double-edged sword” as they have lent the military government more support, Gouvy said.

Damiba has pledged to return to Burkina Faso constitutional rule “within a reasonable time”.

But according to Eizenga, the coup marks a dangerous departure from the democratic path the country had embarked on after 27 years of Compaoré’s rule.

“People [in Burkina Faso] felt like they had been demanding change and they hadn’t been receiving it and that’s a policy failure,” Eizenga said. “But coups d’etat fundamentally disrupt [the democratic process] by putting unelected officials in power by force.”

“There is then no guarantee for citizens’ rights and their civil liberties.”



Kim Jong Un says North Korea's latest missile test demonstrates the might of its nuclear forces and should deter any US military moves.

Key points:
North Korea's leader says the test will deter "US imperialists"
Analysts say the Hwasong-17 missile is the largest liquid-fuelled missile ever launched from a road-mobile launcher
The launch is another challenge for the US as it deals with Russia's invasion of Ukraine
Thursday's launch was the nuclear-armed nation's first full test of an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) since 2017.

Flight data indicated the missile flew higher and longer than any of North Korea's previous tests, before crashing into the sea west of Japan.

The Hwasong-17 ICBM is the largest liquid-fuelled missile ever launched by any country from a road-mobile launcher, analysts said.

They suggested the missile could reach targets 15,000 kilometres away when fired on normal trajectory with a warhead weighing less than a tonne, which would place the entire US mainland within striking distance.

North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and two men in military uniforms look out a window and into the sky.
Kim Jong Un watches the launch of an intercontinental ballistic missile.(Korean Central News Agency via Reuters)
Mr Kim ordered the test because of the "daily-escalating military tension in and around the Korean peninsula" and the "inevitability of the long-standing confrontation with the US imperialists accompanied by the danger of a nuclear war", state news agency KCNA reported.

"The strategic forces of the DPRK are fully ready to thoroughly curb and contain any dangerous military attempts of the US imperialists," Mr Kim said while personally overseeing the launch, according to KCNA. 

Photos released by state media showed a massive missile, painted black with a white nose cone, rising on a column of flame from a launch vehicle.

KCNA called the successful test a "striking demonstration of great military muscle," while Mr Kim said it was a "miraculous" and "priceless" victory for the Korean people.


North Korea conducts its largest-ever missile test.
North Korea first unveiled the Hwasong-17 at a pre-dawn military parade in October 2020, with analysts noting it appeared "considerably larger" than its predecessor, the Hwasong-15, which was test-fired in November 2017.

North Korea's return to major weapons tests capable of potentially striking the United States poses a direct challenge to President Joe Biden as he responds to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

It also raises the prospect of a new crisis following the election of a new, conservative South Korean administration, which has pledged a stronger military strategy to counter Pyongyang.

South Korea's President-elect Yoon Suk-yeol said North Korea had nothing to gain from provocation.

His military responded to Thursday's launch with live-fire drills of its own missiles launched from land, a fighter jet and a ship, underscoring a revival of tensions as diplomacy remains frozen.

The launch also drew condemnation from leaders in the United States and Japan.

US Secretary of Defence Lloyd J Austin held separate telephone conversations with his counterparts in South Korea and Japan, where they discussed response measures to North Korean missile activities and vowed to strengthen defence cooperation, according to the Pentagon.

The US State Department has announced sanctions on two Russian companies, a Russian and a North Korean individual, and North Korea's Second Academy of Natural Science Foreign Affairs Bureau, for transferring sensitive items to North Korea's missile program.

Source: ABC
The COVID-19 pandemic has had the dual effect of raising climate ambition and shedding light on the complexity of global supply chains. At the intersection of these phenomena is the realization that even as companies produce “zero-emissions” final products, they jeopardize the legitimacy of the energy transition by using manufacturing processes that are far from clean. Amidst global calls to “electrify everything,” the European Union (EU) has initiated a novel effort to clean up one of the most important drivers of economic decarbonization: the battery.

The EU’s pending Batteries Regulation exemplifies how the technology most important to electrification can set global standards for supply chain sustainability, despite a manufacturing process defined by high carbon intensity, environmental risks, and—in some cases—human rights abuses. Currently under consideration in the European Parliament, the Regulation proposes progressive reductions to the carbon footprint of the battery value chain, mandatory minimum levels of recycled content and recoverability for key raw materials, and additional requirements for battery performance, durability, safety, due diligence, and labeling.

The new EU Batteries Regulation will replace an older Batteries Directive from 2006, which the European Commission deemed too limited in its scope of battery technology and inadequate in its recoverability and recyclability mandates. While the original Directive regulated three battery categories—portable, automotive, and industrial—the updated Regulation adds a separate designation specifically for electric vehicle batteries.

The Regulation has the power to address challenges that have long plagued the battery industry but have never been effectively resolved through comprehensive policy. It tackles some of the thorniest issues with battery manufacturing—such as human rights abuses associated with cobalt mining in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and safety issues with the disposal of lithium-ion batteries at end-of-life—that have, until now, been litigated primarily in the media.

The significant stakeholder engagement around the Batteries Regulation not only highlights its sweeping potential impact but also underscores the differing responses to supply chain disruption between the EU and the United States. For one, the EU’s emphasis on quantifiable sustainability standards far surpasses US efforts to regulate battery sustainability, safety, and end-of-life management. So far, only one jurisdiction in the US—Washington, DC—has passed a law mandating Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) for both single-use and rechargeable batteries. California—arguably the most proactive state with regard to sustainable life cycle management of electric vehicle lithium-ion batteries—has established a Lithium-Ion Car Battery Recycling Advisory Group “aimed at ensuring that as close to 100 percent as possible of lithium-ion batteries are reused or recycled at end-of-life in a safe and cost-effective manner.” But the group is not expected to deliver policy recommendations to the state legislature until April 2022. Meanwhile, the EU-wide EPR directive for batteries came into effect in 2006, and the updated Battery Regulation effectively replaces the flexibility of the original Batteries Directive—which allowed member states to incorporate goals into national laws as they saw fit—with legally binding recyclability, recoverability, and carbon footprint targets.

In addition, national security and geopolitical competition with China tend to play less of a role in supply chain reform in the EU than in the United States. While Europe certainly recognizes the national security imperative of safeguarding supply chains, it prioritizes ESG criteria to protect domestic industry and drive change in key economies active in battery supply chains, the largest of which happens to be China. For example, the European Green Deal’s Circular Economy Action Plan (which includes the new Batteries Regulation) and Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism use sustainability as a lever to both drive innovation at home and force foreign companies active in the trading bloc to choose between cleaner business practices or escalating penalties. In the United States, national security frequently provides the basis for often-sweeping import tariffs, whether explicitly (as in Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962) or implicitly (as in Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974). While the White House’s often-cited 100-Day Supply Chain Review from June 2021 recommends the establishment of a national battery material recovery and recycling policy to improve supply chain resilience, much of the rhetoric—and legal action—around the topic has focused on limiting imports of lithium-ion batteries and related inputs from China.

The global implications of the new Regulation are most evident in its establishment of a battery passport to digitally track key metrics across the battery life cycle, from sourcing, production, and use to potential secondary applications, recycling, and end-of-life. Ultimately, any battery that is “placed on the market” in the EU must abide by the new requirements, meaning that suppliers operating across the battery value chain—from miners in South America’s Lithium Triangle to cell manufacturers in China—will eventually need to transition to more sustainable business models or risk falling out of compliance.

Challenges remain about how penalties for noncompliance will be administered. As lawmakers negotiate requirements for vastly different battery technologies, they must mitigate concerns around regulatory overreach and balance sustainability with economic competitiveness. Industry groups have raised issues with the regulation’s methodology for tracking embedded carbon, rigid targets for recycled content, and extensive disclosure obligations they worry may disadvantage European battery manufacturers. Lawmakers also need to address the lack of clarity around due diligence, EPR transfer for recycled or remanufactured batteries, and monitoring and enforcement of data collection. But overall, battery manufacturers, automakers, and energy companies have responded positively to the legislation. In December 2021, a group of industry players including Northvolt, Vulcan Energy, and others signed a letter urging EU environment ministers to ensure that “the provisions in the proposed regulation are adopted and implemented as swiftly as possible.”

With Europe on track to become the world’s second largest lithium-ion battery cell manufacturer by 2025, the continent has a unique ability to influence ESG standards across supply chains and international borders. As companies in the United States, China, and other major economies seek to carve out or maintain a dominant role in EV supply chains, they will soon have to prove their sustainability bona fides or risk losing market share in the world’s largest trading bloc. The EU’s negotiations for a first-of-its-kind sustainable battery regulation offer a useful roadmap for companies and countries needing to green their own supply chains to stay relevant in the wake of the energy transition.