Saturday, November 19, 2022 – Rishi Sunak, the new Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, made his first visit to Kyiv, pledging his continuous firm support for Ukraine and providing a new air defense package to help shoot down drones from Russia. On Twitter, Sunak said, “Britain knows what it means to fight for freedom,” and he promised he was with them all the way.

In a statement by Sunak, he said Britain would provide a new 50-million-pound ($60 million) package that includes anti-aircraft guns and technology such as radar to counter drone attacks. Britain also promised increase in the training provided to the armed forces of Ukraine.

President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, also posted a video of the two meetings in Kyiv, and he welcomed the continued support from London.

Source: Reuters
Wednesday, November 16, 2022 – The office for National Statistics said United Kingdom’s inflation rose to a fresh high in October due to Soaring energy costs, which is terrible news for an economy sliding into recession. In October, the annual inflation rate rose to 11.1%, up from 10.1% in the 12 months from September.

The rise in gas and electricity prices has caused a sharp rise in living costs, despite a government energy price guarantee, which caps energy bills at £2,500 ($2,970) for the typical household. In contrast, inflation of food prices rose to 16,4%.

In a statement by ONS chief economist Grant Fitzner, he said, “over the past year, the gas price has climbed nearly 130% while electricity has risen by around 66%.

The Data from ONS last week showed that the economy of the UK shrank in the third quarter, and the bank of England projects that the recession will continue through the first quarter of 2024.

Source: CNN
Wednesday, November 16, 2022 – Ukraine has confirmed it faced fierce attacks in the east from forces of Russia that were reinforced with troops withdrawn from Kherson in the south. On the other hand, NATO and Poland have concluded that the missile crash in Poland was probably a stray fired by Ukraine’s air defenses.

Officials said the government in Kyiv was working to restore power across the country on Wednesday after an intense Russian strike struck civilian infrastructure.

On Wednesday, ambassadors of NATO held emergency talks to respond to the blast that killed two people on Tuesday at a grain facility in Poland close to the Ukrainian border, the first deadly extension of the war into the western alliance.

The President of Poland, Andrzej Duda, said, “from the information gathered, it was an S-300 rocket made in the Soviet Union, an old rocket and there is no evidence that Russia launched it.”

Source: Reuters 
The White House on Wednesday detailed $2.8 billion in grants to build a domestic EV battery supply chain, but more of the funds in this allocation go toward projects in states opposed to climate action, and states for which legislators voted against the law.

Part of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law passed in 2021, the funding goes to 20 battery manufacturing and raw-materials processing companies for projects across 12 states, according to a White House press release. When matched by recipients, the funding totals more than $9 billion, the White House noted.

But as The New York Times pointed out, the flow of money, which is being announced just weeks before consequential midterm elections, is weighted toward red states. The list of states where projects receiving the federal funding are located includes: Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Missouri, Nevada, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Tennessee, and Washington.

Goals for the funding include developing enough lithium supply for approximately two million EVs annually, graphite supply for 1.2 million EVs annually, and nickel supply for 400,000 EVs annually.

Grants will also fund expanded refinement and manufacturing infrastructure, including the first commercial-scale lithium electrolyte salt production facility in the United States, the first commercial-scale domestic silicon oxide production facilities (for battery anodes), and the first U.S. lithium iron phosphate (LFP) cathode facility. Another project is an electrode binder facility that aims to satisfy 45% of demand for battery binders by 2030.

In addition to funding battery supply infrastructure, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law also funnels $7.5 billion toward creation of a national EV charging network that now includes plans for all 50 states.

Outside the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Energy Department earlier this year designated more than $3 billion toward the domestic supply chain, and the Biden Administration has already turned to the Defense Production Act to bolster battery materials.

This should result in more affordable EVs in the long term. In more immediate consumer sense and over the short term, the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) and its revamped EV tax credit will mean less affordable EVs.