Burkina Faso: Military coup prompts fears of further instability
President Roch Kabore was deposed amid anger over violence, but analysts say the military coup could unleash more insecurity.
The military coup deposing Burkina Faso’s President Roch Kabore is the fourth in a string of recent military takeovers in West and Central Africa, prompting fears of further regional instability.

Mutinous soldiers demanding more support for their fight against armed groups announced on Monday that they had toppled the democratically elected president.

While the takeover sparked widespread international condemnation, it was greeted with significant support in Burkina Faso.

“Kabore lost the confidence of Burkinabe citizens, there is no doubt in that,” Daniel Eizenga, an analyst at the Africa Center for Strategic Studies in Washington, told Al Jazeera.

Yet, whether the takeover can deliver on the popular demand for better security or provide “an opportunity for armed insurgency groups to further build on their operations in the area” remains to be seen, Eizenga added.

Since 2015, Burkina Faso has been fighting armed campaigns by groups linked to al-Qaeda and ISIL (ISIS) that have spilled over from neighbouring Mali.

The number of attacks has risen from nearly 500 in 2020 to more than 1,150 in 2021, placing the country well ahead of Mali’s 684 and Niger’s 149 violent events.

Local security forces and civilians have been the primary victims of the violence by armed groups. More than 1.4 million people have been displaced by the conflict, according to estimates by the United Nations’ refugee agency, the UNHCR.

Alex Vines, who heads the Africa Programme at Chatham House in London, told Al Jazeera the increase in violence in Burkina Faso was preceded by a failed coup in September 2015 targeting the transitional government that followed the resignation of longtime leader Blaise Compaoré.

In its aftermath, “the intelligence and security networks were purged and greatly weakened in a response to that coup attempt”, Vines said.

“So you had a very weakened state in terms of its security apparatus, which provided an easier route for some of these groups to move in.”

Kabore’s People’s Movement for Progress (MPP) party inherited this frail security apparatus when it was elected with 53 percent of the vote in Burkina Faso’s first-ever electoral transfer of power in November 2015.

Since then, armed groups – including the Group for the Support of Islam and Muslims, or JNIM, which is aligned with al-Qaeda, and the Islamic State in the Greater Sahara (ISGS), an offshoot of ISIL – have asserted further control in rural areas and carried out attacks on the capital.

Last year, frustration over the rapidly deteriorating security situation reached a boiling point. In June, Burkina Faso witnessed the worst attack by armed groups in the history of the country when more than 130 civilians were killed in a three-hour onslaught on Solhan, a remote village in Yagha province on the eastern border with Niger, prompting calls to intensify counterterrorism efforts.

No one claimed responsibility for the killings, but government officials said it was the work of ISIL affiliates.

“I bow before the memory of the hundred civilians killed in this barbaric attack,” Kabore said in a televised address as he announced a three-day national mourning period.

A further blow to Kabore’s leadership came in November, when an attack on a gendarmerie post in the northern town of Inata killed 49 officers and four civilians.

The Inata attack “spelled Kabore’s demise”, according to Constantin Gouvy, an analyst at Clingendael’s Conflict Research Unit in The Hague.

Reports that officers had gone for weeks without food provisions and adequate equipment sparked protests and widespread popular indignation. Additionally, in an effort to quell the calls for his resignation and shore up support within the army, Kabore appointed Lieutenant-Colonel Paul-Henri Sandaogo Damiba as commander of Burkina Faso’s third military region, tasked with protecting the capital Ouagadougou from attacks.

Ironically, Gouvy said, the man called upon by Kabore to rescue his democratically elected government turned out to be the leader of the military coup that deposed him on Monday.

Kabore’s whereabouts remain unknown, despite statements by the military government that detained officials were being held “in a secure place”.

Damiba was named the leader of the newly established Patriotic Movement for Safeguard and Restoration (MPSR).

In contrast to the deposed president, Damiba has sought to present himself as an expert in countering terrorism. A graduate of the military academy in Paris, he is the author of a book titled West African Armies and Terrorism: Uncertain Responses? in which he analysed anti-terrorism strategies in the Sahel region and their limits.

However, his plan for battling the armed groups remains unclear.

“There is a lot that is still unknown, including how he justifies that he would be better at dealing with the situation than Kabore,” Gouvy said.

“He has military experience but it’s unlikely that just a change in leadership will solve the issue,” including the army’s funding problem, he added.

‘No guarantee’ for rights

Kabore’s removal was welcomed by hundreds of Burkinabe on the streets of Ouagadougou on Tuesday. Among the crowd, some also welcomed the coup as a liberation from the country’s former colonial power, France.

Paris had expanded its military cooperation with Burkina Faso at President Kabore’s request, including the country in its Operation Barkhane battling armed groups in Africa’s Sahel region. Its intervention sparked some criticism among citizens and state officials in Burkina Faso.

Pro-military demonstrators also held Russian flags, calling for an intervention similar to that that occurred in the Central African Republic, where Russian mercenaries fought off an armed uprising last year.

Russia has also admitted providing military assistance through state channels in Mali, despite Bamako denying the presence of Russian mercenaries from the Wagner Group following allegations by Western powers.

No indication has yet emerged as to whether Damiba may turn to Russia for security cooperation. However, Vines said Moscow has been looking to position itself as an alternative to Western intervention in a context where discontent is simmering.

“Burkina Faso could be a logical place for the Russians to also work with the junta,” Vines said, adding however that Moscow risks becoming enmeshed in the politics of authoritarian regimes and progressively isolated by democratic governments in the continent.

The 15-country West African bloc the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) will hold a special session on Friday to discuss how to respond to the fourth military coup in the past year, after Mali, Chad and Guinea.

“There is concern among ECOWAS members that this [trend] could spread even further,” Gouvy said, adding that the bloc is likely carefully considering its toolbox.

Harsh sanctions imposed on Mali after coup leader Assimi Goita announced a five-year delay to return to constitutional rule turned out to be “a double-edged sword” as they have lent the military government more support, Gouvy said.

Damiba has pledged to return to Burkina Faso constitutional rule “within a reasonable time”.

But according to Eizenga, the coup marks a dangerous departure from the democratic path the country had embarked on after 27 years of Compaoré’s rule.

“People [in Burkina Faso] felt like they had been demanding change and they hadn’t been receiving it and that’s a policy failure,” Eizenga said. “But coups d’etat fundamentally disrupt [the democratic process] by putting unelected officials in power by force.”

“There is then no guarantee for citizens’ rights and their civil liberties.”



Monday, February 28, 2022 – Cyclone Batsirai blasted into the Indian Ocean island late Saturday, hammering the eastern shoreline until it moved away late Sunday, killing at least ten people, displacing 43,000 people, and destroying some towns and villages. Madagascar, which has a population of roughly 30 million people, was already suffering from the repercussions of Cyclone Ana, which had killed 55 people and displaced 130,000 just two weeks before.

Officials stated that emergency responders were struggling to access sections of Madagascar damaged by a cyclone over the weekend because many roads and bridges were unusable, and rising river levels threatened to displace even more people. 

The official disaster relief agency in Madagascar said it was supplying basic necessities to 43,000 people in 180 temporary shelters. At the same time, the World Food Programme claimed it had begun giving hot meals to 4,000 evacuated individuals.

Source: CNN
Thursday, February 17, 2022 – A wave of a landslide caused by heavy rains caused massive casualties in the Brazilian city of Petrópolis, with the fatality count standing at 110 people. 

According to the Civil Defense of Rio, another 134 persons remain missing, and the continuous torrential rains that prompted the evacuation of another area in the city on Thursday may cause more casualties as the rainfall on Tuesday afternoon alone was greater than the historical average for the whole month of February.

Search and rescue crews were forced their way through sludge, searching for survivors amid the wreckage. The National Civil Defense stated it had saved 24 people but over 439 individuals had lost their houses.

Brazil's President Jair Bolsonaro, who was in Moscow when the landslides began on Tuesday before traveling to Hungary, is scheduled to visit Petrópolis on Friday. He had directed ministers and requested "urgent help" for the victims.

Source: CNN
China has the world's largest EV market. According to DIGITIMES Research, the country saw the sale of 3.3 million EVs in 2021, a 168% growth from 2020. It supports a huge domestic battery industry consisting of material suppliers, battery makers and many other enterprises, enabling the development of recycling.

A DIGITIMES Asia recent report, "2022 EV battery value-chain outlook in Asia," provides a comprehensive overview of the China EV battery industry. Below is the summary of the report.

China manufactures and uses the most EV batteries in the world. According to SNE Research, a South Korean research firm, the global EV battery usage in2021 is 296.8GWh, of which China takes up more than 50%.

Moreover, six out of the top 10 battery makers are based in China or owned by a Chinese company, including the world-leading CATL.

In recent years, LFP battery adoption has been growing because more automakers and battery companies favor LFP over ternary lithium batteries. Data shows that the production, sales and installation of LFP batteries might surpass or reach the same level as ternary batteries.

Government subsidy and policy have been affecting and will continue to affect the EV industry in China, including battery manufacturing. Nearly every material supplier and battery maker are expanding in response to the growing need. Material suppliers such as Huayou Cobalt and Beijing Easpring Material Technology both have nickel mining projects in Indonesia to secure the raw materials.

As for battery design, more companies feature safety when launching their products. GAC Aion and BYD showcased battery technologies with enhanced heat-resisting ability in recent years. Due to multiple fire accidents resulting from batteries, manufacturers need to offset the concern with advanced solutions.

On the other hand, salvaging raw materials from spent batteries is important for China to ensure supply and become less dependent on other nations. The country is still forming its EV battery recycling ecosystem while having prominent recyclers like GEM and Brunp Recycling. Government policies are expected to lead the development of the business.

China quickly dominated EV battery manufacturing with existing resources and infrastructure. With growing production capacity and presence overseas, the country will remain a major player in the market.