Saturday, October 22, 2022 - The Minister for Defense of the United States held rare telephone talks with his Russian counterpart after a pro-kremlin official made it known that they were turning Ukraine's Southern city of Kherson into a "fortress" as Kyiv's forces advance.

There were few details of the conversation between Russia's Sergei Shoigu and US defense secretary Lloyd Austin but confirmed to have discussed Ukraine. However, Russia's defense ministry said Topical international security issues, including the situation in Ukraine, were discussed.

No specifics were given by the Pentagon other than saying that Austin, who initiated the conversation, emphasized a need for lines of communication amid the war in Ukraine.

A senior security negotiator, Gavrilov, also said that in the wake of the call, Moscow expected clarification about the nuclear deterrence exercise that NATO is carrying out.

Source: The Guardian
Wednesday, December 21, 2022 - The president of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, after arriving in the United States on his first foreign visit since the invasion of Ukraine, told the congress that aid to Ukraine is not a charity but an investment in democracy. He thus seeks more support from the United States for Ukraine’s war effort.

Before the arrival of the Ukrainian President, Antony Blinken, the Secretary of State announced that Ukraine would receive another $1.85 billion military aid from the United States, including a Patriot air defense system to help defend itself against Russian missiles.

About $50 billion in assistance have been sent to Ukraine by the United States dues to the biggest land conflict Europe has ever seen since World War II. But concern about the price tag has been shown by Republicans who will take control of the House of Representatives on Jan 3.

Source: Reuters 
Friday, December 2, 2022 – Russia says peace talks will be complicated due to the West's refusal to recognize new territories seized from Ukraine after the president of the United States indicated that he would be ready to meet Russian President Vladimir Putin. 

The Kremlin made it clear that it was open to negotiations but will not be on the demand of the West to pull out of Ukraine. 

President Biden told reporters that he was ready to meet with the Russian leader if he was interested in putting an end to the war. Beside him in the White House was the President of France, Emmanuel Macron; both of whom had agreed not to urge the Ukrainians to make a compromise that would not be acceptable to them.

Source: BBC 
The U.S. Department of Energy on Wednesday selected 20 companies to receive a combined $2.8 billion for projects that expand domestic battery manufacturing and minerals processing necessary to support the transition to electric vehicles

DOE said 21 total projects span a dozen states and will focus on the extraction and processing of lithium, graphite and other battery materials, along with component manufacturing and demonstration projects, including manufacturing components from recycled materials.

EV sales are growing quickly, and the Biden administration has taken steps to develop a domestic battery supply chain. “Producing advanced batteries and components here at home will accelerate the transition,” Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm said.

According to DOE, almost all lithium, graphite, battery-grade nickel and other materials are “produced abroad, and China controls the supply chains.”

Electrification advocates said the funding represents a real commitment from the federal government to securing domestic supply chains.

“This is what getting serious about competing with China, developing a robust domestic electric vehicle supply chain, and leading the world in clean transportation technology looks like,” Zero Emission Transportation Association Executive Director Joe Britton said in a statement.

Among the projects that will receive funding, DOE said:

American Battery Technology will receive $57.7 million for development of a commercial-scale facility to demonstrate a new process for manufacturing battery cathode grade lithium hydroxide, near Tonopah, Nevada;
Piedmont Lithium will receive $141.7 million to develop a facility in McMinn County, Tennessee, capable of producing 30,000 metric tons per year of lithium hydroxide for the domestic battery and EV market, “doubling the lithium hydroxide production capacity currently available in the United States”;
6k Inc. will receive $50 million to develop domestic production of multiple battery chemistries while also demonstrating the ability to recycle end-of-life batteries, “freeing the U.S. from its current dependence on conflict nations.” A final decision on site locations is expected in December.

According to DOE, the funding announced Wednesday will support development of enough battery-grade lithium for 2 million EVs annually. The agency also said the funding is the “first phase” of $7 billion provided by the bipartisan infrastructure law to build out the domestic battery supply chain.

DOE also announced the launch of the American Battery Material Initiative, a dedicated effort to align dozens of federal programs in growing the battery supply chain.

The initiative will “coordinate domestic and international efforts to accelerate permitting for critical minerals projects,” DOE said, while also noting its commitment to the environment and outreach to impacted communities.