Sunday, June 12, 2022 - South Korean Defense Minister Lee Jong-sup said that his country will boost its defense capabilities by working closely with the United States and Japan to counter North Korea’s nuclear and missile threat.

Lee urged North Korea to immediately end its nuclear weapon and missile programs while speaking at an Asian security meeting in Singapore.   

In his speech at the Shangri-La Dialogue, Lee said, “The South Korean government will strengthen capabilities to better implement the United States’ extended deterrence, and will strengthen the response capabilities of South Korea to deter North Korea’s nuclear and missile threats.”

He also expressed South Korea’s interest in strengthening security cooperation between the US and Japan to respond to North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs. 

Lee said the South Korean government is ready to extend economic support if North Korea could make substantial progress in ending its nuclear program, 

Source: Reuters
Wednesday, June 29, 2022 – Ukraine secured the release of 144 of its soldiers, including 95 who defended the Azovstal steelworks in Mariupol, in the largest exchange of the crisis yet. 144 Russian and separatist soldiers were returned to Russia, according to a pro-Russian separatist leader who verified the prisoner swap.

Following the Azov men’s seizure in Mariupol, many Russian politicians advocated for their trial and even death. Several members of the State Duma of Russia have stated that they will introduce new legislation that might disrupt prisoner swaps involving fighters whom Moscow deems “terrorists.”

More than a thousand Azovstal defenders who surrendered to Moscow’s forces at the end of a three-month siege were moved to Russian-held territory in May. The fate of the troops remained a major worry for Kyiv’s leaders, who claimed they would engage in a prisoner swap.

Some Russian military bloggers and pro-war politicians reacted negatively to the plan to exchange detainees; however, Moscow did not react to the prisoner exchange.

Source: The Guardian
Monday, April 11, 2022 - The European Union is discussing further sanction packages to be levied against Russia, and the country and its military continue its invasion of Ukraine. According to the Danish Foreign Minister, Jeppe Kofod, several EU leaders have been building sanctions regarding oil and other economic deterrents.

This comes on the heels of Russia's brutal involvement in the Kyiv suburb of Bucha, where the bodies of slain Ukrainian civilians have continued to be unearthed since Russian forces withdrew at the end of last week. Leaders of Ireland, Lithuania, and Denmark, among others, are involved with this next round of sanctions against Russia and hope the parameters placed on essential raw resources will promote the country's withdrawal from Ukraine without further violence.
Source: CNN
普勤时代与印尼ANTAM和IBI公司共建印尼动力电池产业链项目

• 项目投资总金额近60亿美元，专注于镍矿的开采和加工、电池材料、电池制造以及电池回收等子项目

• 三方伙伴关系的建立是宁德时代开拓全球布局的重要里程碑，同时也将促进印尼的电动汽车产业发展



4月14日，广东邦普下属公司普勤时代与印度尼西亚PT Aneka Tambang (ANTAM)和PT Industri Baterai Indonesia (IBI)签署三方协议，共同打造包括镍矿开采和冶炼、电池材料、电池制造和电池回收等在内的动力电池产业链项目。广东邦普是宁德时代控股子公司。



根据协议，三方将在印度尼西亚北马鲁古省东哈马黑拉县的FHT工业园区及印尼其他相关工业园区投资建设动力电池产业链项目，投资总金额不超过59.68亿美元。



ANTAM是一家印度尼西亚上市的国有矿业公司。印尼电池公司(IBI)是一家印尼国有公司，由印尼国家石油公司、国家电力公司、国家矿业公司以及ANTAM新组建的专门用于开展电池生产的投资公司，主要在印尼及海外投资电池及相关产业链项目。



该项目将进一步完善宁德时代在电池行业的战略布局，保障上游关键资源和原材料供应，降低生产成本，并推进公司电池回收产业布局。



“印尼动力电池产业链项目对宁德时代的全球战略布局具有重要的里程碑意义。” 宁德时代创始人兼董事长曾毓群表示，“印尼项目将成为中印尼友谊常青的象征，我们对项目的未来发展充满信心。”



印尼海事和投资统筹部部长Luhut Binsar Pandjaitan说:“今天签署的框架协议对印尼打造电动车产业链战略具有非常重大的意义，我相信在各方的努力下，这个项目将得以顺利落实。”