Sunday, September 4, 2022 – The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denys Shmyhal, has thanked Germany for its solidarity in the face of the Russian invasion and calls for more weapons. This is seen as a sign of easing the tension between Berlin and Kyiv.

On Sunday, German chancellor Olaf Scholz welcomed Denys Shmyhal with military honors in Berlin, as he is the most senior Ukrainian official to visit the German capital in months since Kyiv accused the European Union's biggest economy of doing too little.

After the meeting with Steinmeier, Shmyhal, in a tweet, said the matter discussed in the meeting was the military situation, strengthening sanctions, and the need to provide weapons for Ukraine.

Before his trip, Shmyhal told German media, "Germany has made huge progress in supporting Ukraine with weapons." He also added that Kyiv needed more from Berlin, which includes “modern combat tanks” such as the Leopard 2.

Source: The Guardian
Friday, September 16, 2022 – The Ministry of Defense in Ukraine in a Twitter post on Friday, said Ukrainian authorities have found 440 unmarked graves at a burial site in Izium, a city in the eastern part of Ukraine recently recaptured from Russian forces. 

Volodymyr Zelensky said the Ukrainian and international journalists would be shown the site to see what had been uncovered. He also added that they “want the world to know what is really happening and what the Russian occupation has led to.”

The Center for Strategic Communications in Ukraine said some of the graves that were discovered in Izium were fresh, and that civilians constitute the highest number of the people buried there.

In April, Izium was subjected to intense artillery attacks from Russia, and the city, which is located near the border between the Kharkiv and Donetsk regions, became a crucial hub for the invading military during five months of occupation.

Source: CNN
Monday, July 25, 2022 - The Ukrainian government, with the goal of easing global food shortages, has proceeded with efforts to restart grain exports from its Black Sea ports, but gave a clear warning that if the Russian missile that struck in Odesa was a sign of more to come, deliveries would suffer. 

Ukraine's President, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, denounced Saturday's attack as "barbaric", which shows that Moscow could not be trusted with the implementation of a deal that was struck a day earlier with Turkish and United Nations mediation. 

The minister for infrastructure, Oleksandr Kubrakov, said in a Facebook post that "We continue technical preparations for the launch of exports of agricultural products from our ports." 

On Friday, Moscow and Kyiv signed a deal that was hailed as a diplomatic breakthrough that would help bring down the soaring global food prices by restoring Ukrainian grain shipments to pre-war levels of 5 million tonnes a month.

Source: Reuters 
The electric battery maker SPARAR 0.0%KZ announced the location of a factory it will build in West Virginia — the byproduct of the Inflation Reduction Act. The plant will produce storage devices with no cobalt, a raw material mined in the Democratic Republic of Congo and processed in China.

The move is a harbinger of what is to come — the domestic mining of essential raw elements and building batteries in the United States. The 482,000-square-foot factory in Bridgeport, W.V. will initially employ 350 people. The California-based battery producer said it has an agreement with the United Mine Workers to hire and train idled workers, marking what could become coal country’s turnaround.

To start, the factory will build batteries that go into forklifts and farm equipment and those used for energy storage that harnesses electrons and releases them later. But over time, the plant will gear up for an expected boom in the electric vehicle market. EVs now make up about 2% of cars worldwide. But the Bank of AmericaBAC +2% says it could be as high as 25% in 2025 and 50% in 2030 in the U.S.