Kim Jong Un says North Korea's latest missile test demonstrates the might of its nuclear forces and should deter any US military moves.

Key points:
North Korea's leader says the test will deter "US imperialists"
Analysts say the Hwasong-17 missile is the largest liquid-fuelled missile ever launched from a road-mobile launcher
The launch is another challenge for the US as it deals with Russia's invasion of Ukraine
Thursday's launch was the nuclear-armed nation's first full test of an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) since 2017.

Flight data indicated the missile flew higher and longer than any of North Korea's previous tests, before crashing into the sea west of Japan.

The Hwasong-17 ICBM is the largest liquid-fuelled missile ever launched by any country from a road-mobile launcher, analysts said.

They suggested the missile could reach targets 15,000 kilometres away when fired on normal trajectory with a warhead weighing less than a tonne, which would place the entire US mainland within striking distance.

North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and two men in military uniforms look out a window and into the sky.
Kim Jong Un watches the launch of an intercontinental ballistic missile.(Korean Central News Agency via Reuters)
Mr Kim ordered the test because of the "daily-escalating military tension in and around the Korean peninsula" and the "inevitability of the long-standing confrontation with the US imperialists accompanied by the danger of a nuclear war", state news agency KCNA reported.

"The strategic forces of the DPRK are fully ready to thoroughly curb and contain any dangerous military attempts of the US imperialists," Mr Kim said while personally overseeing the launch, according to KCNA. 

Photos released by state media showed a massive missile, painted black with a white nose cone, rising on a column of flame from a launch vehicle.

KCNA called the successful test a "striking demonstration of great military muscle," while Mr Kim said it was a "miraculous" and "priceless" victory for the Korean people.


North Korea conducts its largest-ever missile test.
North Korea first unveiled the Hwasong-17 at a pre-dawn military parade in October 2020, with analysts noting it appeared "considerably larger" than its predecessor, the Hwasong-15, which was test-fired in November 2017.

North Korea's return to major weapons tests capable of potentially striking the United States poses a direct challenge to President Joe Biden as he responds to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

It also raises the prospect of a new crisis following the election of a new, conservative South Korean administration, which has pledged a stronger military strategy to counter Pyongyang.

South Korea's President-elect Yoon Suk-yeol said North Korea had nothing to gain from provocation.

His military responded to Thursday's launch with live-fire drills of its own missiles launched from land, a fighter jet and a ship, underscoring a revival of tensions as diplomacy remains frozen.

The launch also drew condemnation from leaders in the United States and Japan.

US Secretary of Defence Lloyd J Austin held separate telephone conversations with his counterparts in South Korea and Japan, where they discussed response measures to North Korean missile activities and vowed to strengthen defence cooperation, according to the Pentagon.

The US State Department has announced sanctions on two Russian companies, a Russian and a North Korean individual, and North Korea's Second Academy of Natural Science Foreign Affairs Bureau, for transferring sensitive items to North Korea's missile program.

Source: ABC
Beginning on January 5, North Korea began a new round of missile tests over the Sea of Japan. These new tests seem targeted toward circumventing American and Japanese missile defense technologies deployed in the region, according to statements made by North Korean state media and analyses by Western observers. Some suspect this new round of tests is meant to preempt a new push for diplomatic engagement with the U.S., which has leveraged severe sanctions against the country due to its missile programs.
Source: BBC
On January 14, the Hunga Tonga-Hunga Ha'apai volcano in Tonga erupted, blasting ash into the atmosphere and causing tsunamis across the Pacific. The eruption lasted for twelve hours, and sent waves as far away as Peru and the United States. The full extent of damage in Tonga is yet unknown, as the eruption damaged cables the country relies on for telecommunications. There are confirmed casualties in Tonga and in Peru.
Dr Venkataraman Thangadurai, Founder and Director of the Western Canada Battery Consortium, explains how a Canadian battery supply chain should be secured and discusses the future developments of next-generation battery technologies.
Driven mainly by the transition to electric vehicles (EVs), the lithium-ion battery (LIB) market is expected to exceed $129bn by 2027.1 Most of this market, around 80%, is currently retained by battery producers in Asia, with China controlling the majority of global battery material processing.2 This reliance on one country to supply battery materials makes the world vulnerable to supply chain issues. Both the European Union and the US realise the risk and are working on restructuring supply chains and procuring materials within their territories. In Canada, the government has committed to building Canadian battery and critical mineral supply chains through a “mines to mobility” approach.
Canada’s push for a domestic battery supply chain
Canada is one of the only jurisdictions in the Western hemisphere with reserves of all the critical minerals required to produce advanced high-energy and high-power-density batteries for EVs and grid-scale applications. It has a large base of crucial battery raw materials, such as cobalt, graphite, lithium, nickel, copper, and manganese.4 Importantly, the country has the infrastructure and trade agreements needed to access the US and EU, two of the largest EV markets. Finally, the country has a skilled workforce and a cutting-edge battery research and development (R&D) ecosystem.

While Canada is poised to lead in developing sustainable battery materials and technology, its path forward is not without challenges. The country is still a long way from having a mature battery supply chain, despite being home to leading battery development centres and abundant raw materials. A recent report from Clean Energy Canada (CEC),5 a climate and clean energy programme within the Morris J Wosk Centre for Dialogue at Simon Fraser University, outlined several current challenges that Canada faces in creating a well-developed, domestic battery supply chain:

Canada has minimal manufacturing capacity and lacks the processing capacity for battery-grade materials;
• Compared to other countries, Canada is slow in decision-making, causing administrative
processes, permitting, and funding allocations to have long lead times;
•    Canada’s small market size makes it difficult to scale up domestic battery supply chains and to establish major battery manufacturing facilities;
•    The country lacks significant investment in commercialisation and has a limited industrial  policy;
•    Canada cannot compete with China in terms of time and cost of producing battery goods and should look to other strengths, such as environmental, social, and governance standards and lifecycle greenhouse gas performances;
•    Uncertainty around the technology, investment flows, and new players entering the market makes it difficult for one sector in the supply chain to scale up without similar actions occurring up     and downstream; and
•    The rapidly changing nature of the technology means that supply chains are challenged to keep up with the latest product ‘recipes’ and research priorities.
Addressing the challenges above requires coordinated action from policymakers, academic institutions, and supply chain participants. The same report by CEC also outlined Canada’s priority actions in the immediate term to establish itself as a player in the global battery industry. The recommended actions mainly involve focusing funding, co-operating with the US, promoting a clean and responsible battery brand, and forming task forces from the government and enterprises. One of the strategies also involves creating a battery centre that focuses on next-generation battery technologies, advanced manufacturing, and battery recycling.

Developing next-generation battery technologies in Western Canada
Organic electrolyte-based LIBs are the predominant battery technology in the market. However, other technologies, such as all-solid-state batteries, offer greater energy densities, faster charging, and safer operation than that of the current LIBs. These next-generation battery technologies will come to dominate in the next few decades, and testing and commercialisation of such technologies could help startups move the technology into mass production. Several groups in Canada are already studying the feasibility of such advanced battery technologies.

Leading battery R&D groups and institutions are located in Eastern Canada, but battery technology and supply chain opportunities are also abundant in the Western part of the country. Lithium is available in large quantities in brines in the Western provinces, and companies in Alberta and Saskatchewan are developing lithium extraction techniques from oilfield wastewater brines. Companies in Manitoba and British Columbia are developing zero-emission marine and land transportation. Initiatives at the University of Calgary, such as the Western Canada Battery Consortium (WCBC), and its core programme, the Battery Innovation Hub (BIH), align with Canada’s goal of strengthening the battery supply chain.

Founded in 2019 by world-renowned scholar Dr Venkataraman Thangadurai, the WCBC brings together Western Canada’s battery experts and industrial partners. The BIH will provide battery researchers and industry partners the facilities and experts to help them evaluate, certify, and qualify every step of battery development. The hub’s R&D activities will include next-generation solid-state electrolyte and electrode developments, raw material extraction, refinement, processing, characterisation, advanced electrode preparation, cell assembly and testing, and safety assessments. New battery materials and technologies at every step of the manufacturing process will be evaluated, qualified, and certified in this facility to generate intellectual property. Additionally, this initiative will train and employ researchers in Canada.

The BIH also aims to provide direct service to companies and other organisations in Canada, including producers, ensuring these companies are involved with and have strong access to ongoing battery research and innovation programmes worldwide. Its ultimate goal is to foster innovation and create intellectual property to help realise commercialisation.

The consortium plans to develop safe, robust, and high-energy-density solid-state batteries with about five times the energy density as the current generation of LIBs (graphite anode, organic electrolyte, and a lithium nickel manganese cobalt oxide (NMC) cathode). The batteries from the consortium will be made from locally available lithium and sulphur resources. They will play a critical role in renewable energy integration with the electric grid and advanced battery-powered mobility and transport applications in Canada. Dr Thangadurai is leading the charge, having pioneered garnet-type ceramics (a silicate mineral structure) used in solid-state lithium batteries.6,7 His group continues to improve the technology of solid-state lithium and sodium batteries and advanced hybrid membranes for high-performance, safe batteries.