Wednesday, August 3, 2022 – The US House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, the most senior US politician to visit Taiwan in 25 years, departed on Wednesday after meeting with leaders in Taipei’s capital. 

The Chinese government accused the United States of violating China’s sovereignty under the disguise of democracy. Wang Yi, Foreign Minister of China, said, “those who play with fire will not come to a good end, and those who offend China will be punished.” 

In a statement following the visit, Nancy Pelosi said that China cannot “prevent world leaders or anyone from traveling to Taiwan to pay respect to its flourishing democracy, highlight its many successes, and reaffirm our commitment to continued collaboration.” 

Pelosi’s visit was not approved by her party colleague, President Joe Biden, who had said the American military felt it was “not a good idea right now” considering the high tension between the two countries.

Source: BBC 
Friday, August 5, 2022 - The nuclear agency in Ukraine says part of a giant nuclear power plant controlled by Russia has been damaged by Russian rockets, but no radiation leak is suspected. Enerhoatom reported that a nitrogen-oxygen unit and a high-voltage power line had been damaged at the Zaporizhzhia plant. 

As the local officials appointed by Russia blame Ukraine for shelling earlier, Ukraine also blames Russian forces for launching rockets at civilian-occupied areas from the site.

Russia seized the Zaporizhzhia plant in March, but the Ukrainian employees were kept. It consists of six pressurized water reactors and stores radioactive waste. The plant and surrounding areas close to Ukrainian-held territory are controlled by Russia. 

The United Kingdom’s defense ministry said the area had been used by Russia to take advantage of its “protected status” to minimize the risks of attack by Ukrainian forces.

Source: BBC 
Wednesday, September 14, 2022 - A court situated in South Korea has issued an arrest warrant for Do Kwon, the primary developer of cryptocurrencies Luna, and TerraUSD, whose collapse in May the affected crypto market around the world. In the wake of the collapse, investors have accused Kwon of fraud. He also founded the blockchain platform Terraform Labs. 

On Wednesday, a spokesperson of the prosecutors, without elaborating, confirmed that" an arrest warrant has been issued for a total of six people, including Do Kwon, who currently resides in Singapore.

The order for arrest came after months of investigation, which included search and seizure operations at related offices and local cryptocurrency exchange. Blockchain analysis from Elliptic confirms that over $42 billion were lost by investors of the two coins.  

The aftermath of the turmoil in the market led to the failure of several major crypto companies, including United States crypto lender Celsius and Singapore-based crypto fund managers Three Arrows Capital.

Son: CNN
FlexGen, a battery storage startup based in Durham, has raised $100 million from investors, including the Dutch energy company Vitol.

Why it matters: Better forms of battery storage are needed so that energy grids can use power from clean sources, like wind turbines and solar panels.

What it does: The startup, which employs around 150 people, doesn't manufacture batteries, but helps integrate them into the traditional power grid and makes software to optimize their use.

Its customers include North Carolina's Electric Cooperatives and Southern California Edison.
What they're saying: "Solar and wind are terrific in that they're clean and green, but they happen to be intermittent," FlexGen CEO Kelcy Pegler told Axios. "The sun's not always shining and the wind’s not always blowing."

"Batteries provide a really great solution to making sure that we can bridge the gaps and make tomorrow's power of solar and wind more available."
What's next: FlexGen is planning to open a new innovation and research center in Durham this year, which will allow it to showcase emerging battery technologies to customers.

Pegler said the company picked Durham because "it's such a great pool of intellect."
Zoom out: FlexGen is the latest local tech company to bring in a large round of funding, joining the likes of Epic Games, JupiterOne and Teamworks. Funding in the Triangle has remained strong this year, despite a national pullback in venture capital investment.