Monday, May 23, 2022 – Ontario experienced thunderstorms that started around Sarnia, a city in Ontario. The storm then went through the southern part of Ontario towards Ottawa, leaving more than 350,00 customers without power or electricity.

According to reports, similar storms went through Central Quebec on the same day, leaving more than 500,000 homes without power.

In both places, the storms destroyed homes, electricity lines, and trees, leaving the regions affected in absolute devastation. There were also reports of overturned cars as a result of the storms.

As a result of the severe winds associated with the thunderstorms, five people have died, and a few more were injured, according to weather reports from Ontario and the National Capital Region.

Reports from officials and experts say that crews have been mobilized to restore services to the affected region.

Source: CNN
Tuesday, May 24, 2022 – On his tour of Asia visiting allies, President Biden likened Taiwan to the tensions between Russia and Ukraine in a statement that attracted remarks from the Chinese leadership.

For the second time in many months, the US promised unequivocally that the US is prepared to defend Taiwan if China attacked. Before this time, the United States’ position had been vague regarding the situation.

Chinese Foreign Minister said that Taiwan is inseparable from China, and their position on that is not subject to compromise. He mentioned further that the situation in Ukraine is unlike that of Taiwan, urging the US to abide by the One-China Principle. 

The ties that the US has with China acknowledge the principle of the One Chinese government, but at the same time, its Taiwan Relations Act states that the US must provide the island with the means to defend itself.

Source: BBC
Monday, April 11, 2022 - For yet another day, the Philippines has been battered by the first tropical storm of the season, named Megi. This weather system formed during a low-pressure front last week, over the Western Pacific Ocean, and has been wreaking havoc on the island chains ever since. Though tropical storms are a common occurrence in that hemisphere, they are typically expected during the Philippines’ “wet” or typhoon season, which lasts between July and November. As this is currently the “dry” season for this country, experiencing a storm of this magnitude is out of the ordinary. Tropical Storm Megi is likely a result of the consistent climate change the globe continues to experience, and has so far caused dangerous flooding, high winds, and even catastrophic landslides in rural or mountainous areas. Sadly, the storm has also claimed the lives of at least 25 individuals.
Source: CNN
DALIAN, China/TOKYO -- China's top makers of electric vehicle battery materials will spend at least 71 billion yuan ($10.8 billion) to scale up output, in some cases tripling production capacity in products they have come to dominate.

The planned investments cover all key components of lithium ion batteries, publicly available capital expenditure plans released by 13 manufacturers show. Some companies have not disclosed timelines for investment or the volume of production expansion.

All are areas in which Chinese suppliers have grown their market shares in recent years by driving down prices.

Yunnan Energy New Material Group, or Semcorp, -- the world's leading supplier of battery separators -- aims to lift its global market share "from 31% in 2021 to 50% in 2025," Chairman Paul Xiaoming Lee told investors this month. The company announced roughly 20 billion yuan in new investments.

Shanghai Energy New Materials Technology is the core operating company within the Semcorp group. The unit surpassed Japan's Asahi Kasei around 2019 to take the world's top share in separators. The sheetlike material creates a barrier between a battery's electrodes, the cathode and the anode.

Semcorp will build factories in Yunnan, Jiangsu, and Hubei provinces, as well as one in the metropolis of Chongqing. The group will partially open a plant this year in Hungary and is considering building another facility in North America.

Semcorp's wide-ranging customers include Chinese EV battery makers CATL and BYD, as well as Japan's Panasonic and South Korea's Samsung and LG groups. Annual production capacity is expected to top 16 billion sq. meters in 2025, up from roughly 5 billion sq. meters from last year.

"We decide to increase production after agreeing to sales contracts with clients," said a Semcorp executive, suggesting that there was no need to be concerned about excess capacity.

Semcorp reported an 86% jump in revenue last year to a record 7.9 billion yuan. Lee said the company looks to raise non-Chinese customers' share of sales volume to 40% in 2025, from less than 30% now.

Elsewhere in the battery supply chain, BTR New Material Group, the leading manufacturer of anode material, unveiled a plan to nearly triple annual capacity when presenting quarterly earnings this month.

The company will build new factories in Shenzhen, where it is headquartered, and in Yunnan Province. BTR aims to be able to produce over 400,000 tons a year in the medium to long term, up from 140,000-plus tons at the end of 2021.

Jiangsu Guotai International Group, a major supplier of battery electrolytes, is building new plants in Zhejiang and Fujian provinces and in Poland.

Japanese companies once held an advantage in battery materials but lost their lead to Chinese competitors.

Last year, Chinese suppliers held global market shares ranging from 62% to 81% in separators, anodes, electrolytes and cathodes, data from the Yano Research Institute in Tokyo shows. Their shares climbed by 11 percentage points to 37 points from 2012 at the expense of Japanese rivals.

Price competition is key to their success. Not only do Chinese suppliers have the production readiness to take on large orders, they are able to keep costs down by buying vast supplies of lithium, cobalt, graphite and other materials.

Government support has also helped the industry grow. For Semcorp, over 100 million yuan of profit booked each year between 2019 and 2021 came from state subsidies.

Japanese rivals are looking to stage a comeback through "China-free" EV supply chains being developed in the U.S. and Europe, where Chinese companies face barriers to investment.

Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings plans to spend several billion yen (1 billion yen equals $7.8 million) through 2023 to double capacity at electrolyte plants in the U.S. and the U.K. Tokai Carbon, which makes graphite products for anodes, will expand production facilities at a French subsidiary.

Sumitomo Metal Mining is considering making cathode material in the U.S., which would represent a break from its Japan-only production structure.

While increasing production, Japanese players are keen to avoid a war of attrition against Chinese competitors, who are armed with government support, in materials that are increasingly becoming commodified. Instead they are looking to higher-margin applications.

Tokyo-based Toray Industries retains a large share in high-performance separators. The company is looking to reallocate investment to such high-end products.

China's breakneck production expansion has fueled concerns of a supply glut. Speaking at an industry forum in China, Li Zhen, chairman of Gotion High-Tech, last month predicted that production demand for some cathode and anode materials at 10 leading suppliers will far exceed global demand in 2025.