Sunday, June 5, 2022 - According to the South Korean Joint Chiefs of Staff, North Korea fired eight short-range ballistic missiles (SRBM) into the waters off its east coast in an unprecedented move.

The missiles were launched in North Korea into waters east of the Korean peninsula from multiple sites between 9:08 a.m. and 9:43 a.m. Seoul local time on Sunday. This is the third missile test by North Korea since the new South Korean president took office on May 10.

The Japanese Prime Minister, Fumio Kishida, protested the launch, saying it violated UN resolutions.

Japan’s Defense Ministry also reported that six of the missiles reached a maximum altitude of between 50 to 100 kilometers (31 to 62 miles) and traveled a distance of about 300 to 400 kilometers (186 to 249 miles).

Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Won In-Choul also held a virtual meeting with the Commander of the ROK-US Combined Forces Command, Paul LaCamera. They reaffirmed their defense’s capability to immediately detect and intercept North Korean missiles.

Source: CNN
Wednesday, June 29, 2022 – Vladimir Putin has threatened that Russia would retaliate if NATO established military facilities in Finland and Sweden after they agreed to the US-led alliance.

The Russian president stated at a press conference in Ashgabat, the capital of Turkmenistan. “There is no territorial disagreement. Finland and Sweden can join if they so want. That is their choice, and they are free to join whatever organization they like.”

However, he cautioned, “if military contingents and equipment were to be installed there, Russia would be compelled to respond symmetrically.

Russia has frequently cautioned Finland and Sweden against joining NATO, claiming that the “severe military and political repercussions” of such a move would compel it to “establish military balance” by bolstering its defenses in the Baltic Sea area, including the deployment of nuclear weapons.

Swedish and Finish Push to join NATO gained traction in response to Russia’s war with Ukraine, seeking more security assurances from NATO.

Source: The Guardian
Wednesday, April 4, 2022 - North Korea has not continued its nuclear weapons testing program since 2017, but neighboring South Korea and Japan attest to a recent launch of a ballistic missile from the Sunan airport. This missile has been traced to the ocean of North Korea’s east coast and is said to be part of Kim Jong Un’s renewed schedule to achieve nuclear arsenal dominance as fast as possible. Further, the Japanese Ministry of Defence has confirmed the ballistic missile’s launch.

As the possibility of the North Korean nuclear presence might increase, South Korea’s brand new President Yoon Suk-yeol— having only just taken office for a five-year term— promises the nation that their military alliance with the United States will be a major fallback, should the situation unfold badly.
Source: The Guardian
Over the past year or so, automakers have been committing billions of dollars to beefing up their production of batteries. Ford is building a plant in Kentucky. General Motors is working with appliance maker LG to develop a battery factory in Michigan.

Last week, Hyundai announced it’s spending $5.5 billion on a battery and electric vehicle plant in Georgia. And this week, Stellantis and Samsung unveiled a plan to build a $2.5 billion facility in Indiana.

If you own an electric car, chances are at least one crucial component in it came from China.

“A majority of battery cells are made in China at this point,” said Kristin Dziczek, a policy adviser at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. “There’s a lot of disruptions in our international supply chains right now,” she said, factoring in COVID lockdowns in China and the war in Ukraine.

Increasingly, car companies want more control over where they get their parts, especially as electric vehicle demand grows.

Gil Tal is director of research at the University of California, Davis, EV research center. He said the federal government is investing in those supply chains too.

President Joe Biden is putting more than $3 billion into the battery supply chain. In a way, the industry’s recent commitments may be angled to help companies grab big slices of these federal grants.

For automakers to transition from making gasoline-powered cars and trucks to EVs requires a lot of upfront investment in new machinery and factories.

“But bringing all the supply chain into the U.S. or having more control on it is a very tall order. And it will take many years,” Tal said.

Actually, building factories where EV batteries can be assembled is the easy part. “The real issue for these companies is access to the raw materials,” said Chris Berry, president of House Mountain Partners.

“Unless you, as an automotive player, have access to lithium and nickel and cobalt and other battery raw materials, it’s going to be really difficult to build out that supply chain structure,” Berry said.

It might only take three or four years to build a factory, but Berry said getting the permits to build a new lithium or nickel mine in the U.S. would probably take closer to 10 years.