Monday, February 28, 2022 – Lismore, a regional city in New South Wales, Australia, has seen continued rescue efforts. State Emergency Services has also encouraged everyone along the whole New South Wales coast to prepare to evacuate, with spokesperson Adam Jones predicting rapid flooding.

The premier also stated that emergency services were doing "all we can to give help and support as fast and securely as possible," with the state enlisting the assistance of flood rescue professionals from South Australia and Victoria.

Though it is too early to determine the entire extent of the destruction, accounts of survival, loss, and near misses have begun to surface, with some individuals claiming to have lost everything.

Northern Rivers resident John Vanderstok claimed officials were stunned by the size of the rescue operation as he joined a flotilla of private boats rescuing residents stuck in flooded houses around town today.

Source: The Guardian 
Medan, Indonesia – The new year has got off to a wet start on the island of Sumatra in Indonesia after torrential rains displaced some more than 30,000 people and left two children dead, according to the country’s Disaster Mitigation Agency.

Heavy rain has pummelled parts of the western island including Jambi and Aceh provinces for days raising fears that the flooding will harm the local economy and lead to a spike in COVID-19 cases.

Muhammad Hatta says his village on the outskirts of the town of Lhoksukon in Aceh Province has been underwater since the beginning of the year, and there is little sign of respite.

Hatta, his wife and three sons managed to prevent the floodwaters from entering their home by blocking off their downstairs kitchen.

But while they have decided to stay put, they fear that the worst may be to come.

“We are more worried about what happens after the floodwaters subside,” Hatta told Al Jazeera.

“All the rice paddies in the area are underwater. The farmers were just about to harvest them, but crops usually die after three or four days of being completely submerged. The farmers will have lost everything.”

Aerial footage filmed by Hatta and seen by Al Jazeera showed impassable streets in and around his village, and homes submerged in milky brown water.


In addition to the ruined rice crop, Hatta says that day labourers in the area have also been unable to work due to the floods.

“The local economy has been destroyed,” he said.

The milky brown waters rose to the roof of buildings around the Aceh town of Lhoksukon 
Floodwaters have risen in Lhoksukon and surrounding villages in Aceh province, Indonesia,  since the start of the year [Supplied/Hamdani]
Parts of neighbouring Malaysia have also been inundated after heavy rains lashed the country, forcing thousands into temporary shelters. More than 50 people have died as a result of the floods across the country, which have affected the states of Selangor, Johor and Melaka, across the Strait of Malacca from Sumatra, particularly badly.

Hatta says the flooding occurs in the area every year and that the government needed to prevent it from happening again by clearing sediment from the surrounding rivers – making them deeper so that they no longer burst their banks following heavy rain.

Hamdani, the head of public relations of the North Aceh Regional Secretariat, told Al Jazeera that there were 32,854 people displaced across 16 districts in North Aceh after heavy rains carried surges of water downstream.

“Local residents have been sheltering with relatives, in mosques and prayer halls and in specially constructed emergency shelters,” he said.

On Sunday, North Aceh Regent Muhammad Thaib declared an official state of emergency in the regency as a result of the floods.

“We are working on logistics like making sure those displaced have enough food. For a few days it’s OK for people to eat instant noodles but after that we need to keep them healthy and feed them nutritious foods like tempeh, mung beans, grains and corn,” Hamdani said.

“We also need blankets for the children and babies as well as milk.”

Hamdani acknowledged that the floods were almost an annual event and said that the regional government was hoping the construction of the Keureuto Dam, slated for completion in 2023, would ease the problem. The dam will hold water from the Krueng Keureuto river and six of its tributaries.

In the meantime, the flooding comes at a particularly inopportune moment.

“COVID-19 numbers in North Aceh have been going down and I have had fewer patients coming to see me with serious symptoms in recent weeks,” Lhoksukon-based pulmonary specialist, Dr Indra Buana, told Al Jazeera.

Children stand in floodwaters in front of a wooden building with a rusted corrugated roof in Aceh
Children in the floodwaters in the villages around Lhoksukon. There are concerns about the spread of disease, including COVID-19 [Supplied/Rina Sarina]
Aceh has reported approximately 38,000 COVID-19 cases since the pandemic began and slightly more than 2,000 deaths, although it has barely registered any new cases or deaths in recent weeks.

But now, the doctor fears that the floods will cause a spate of medical conditions at the same time as the Omicron variant looms on the horizon.

“Floodwater is very dangerous,” he said. “If people inhale it they can drown or it can cause serious lung inflammation.”

“The wet and cold weather at this time of year also usually causes a rise in cases like asthma and upper respiratory tract infections.”

An added problem also comes from displaced residents fleeing their homes and sharing limited space in shelters or with family members where social distancing is difficult.

Aceh has one of the least vaccinated populations in Indonesia with just more than 1.2 million residents double vaccinated out of a population of more than 5.3 million, according to figures from the Ministry of Health.

“We are worried that there will be a spike in COVID-19 cases. It could be very dangerous if someone from outside the area who has COVID-19 visits the shelters and unwittingly infects everyone,” Dr Buana said.

“But at the same time we can’t prohibit people from bringing aid. “
US President Joe Biden has warned there is a "distinct possibility" Russia might invade Ukraine next month, the White House says.
Russia meanwhile says it sees "little ground for optimism" in resolving the crisis after the US rejected Russia's main demands.
The build-up of tens of thousands of Russian troops on Ukraine's borders in recent weeks has stoked fears of an invasion.
Russia denies it is planning an attack.
The US president made the comments in a telephone conversation with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Thursday.
"President Biden said that there is a distinct possibility that the Russians could invade Ukraine in February," White House National Security Council spokesperson Emily Horne said.
"He has said this publicly and we have been warning about this for months."
During their talk, President Biden "reaffirmed the readiness of the United States along with its allies and partners to respond decisively if Russia further invades Ukraine", a White House statement said.
Mr Zelensky said they "discussed recent diplomatic efforts on de-escalation and agreed on joint actions for the future".
Axios, citing unnamed sources, suggested the two disagreed on how imminent the threat was. Some military experts suggest Russia may be waiting for the ground in Ukraine to freeze so they can move in heavy equipment.
Another important phone call will take place on Friday, when French President Emmanuel Macron speaks directly with Russia's Vladimir Putin.
If Russia were to invade Ukraine, it would not be the first time. Russia annexed Ukraine's southern Crimea peninsula in 2014. It is also backing rebels who seized large swathes of the eastern Donbas region soon afterwards, and some 14,000 people have died in fighting there.
Also on Thursday, the US threatened to halt the opening of a key pipeline that would send Russian gas to Western Europe, if Russia invades Ukraine.
Nord Stream 2 would run from Russia to Germany, and on Thursday officials in Berlin said the project could face sanctions if Russia attacks.
Western allies say they will target Russia's economy if it invades, and the latest comments signal a hardening of their stance.
The 1,225km (760-mile) pipeline took five years to build and cost $11bn (£8bn). The energy project, which would run under the Baltic Sea, is designed to double Russia's gas exports to Germany.
But as yet it has not started operating, as regulators said in November it does not comply with German law and suspended its approval.
Russia denies any plans to invade but last month made wide-ranging security demands from the West, including that Ukraine never be allowed to join the Nato military alliance.
The US rejected this key demand, while offering what it called a "serious diplomatic path forward" to Moscow.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Thursday that the US response left "little ground for optimism", but added that "there always are prospects for continuing a dialogue, it's in the interests of both us and the Americans".
The proposals will not be made public, but US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the document made their "core principles" clear, including Ukraine's sovereignty and its right to choose to be part of security alliances such as Nato.
Russia's foreign minister Sergei Lavrov said the formal response does not address Russia's "main concern" about the alliance's expansion.
Governor Kay Ivey joined officials with Dura Automotive Systems on Thursday to celebrate the formal unveiling of the company’s new state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in Muscle Shoals, which will produce electric vehicle battery enclosures.

The 200,000-square-foot facility is expected to employ more than 270 full-time workers at peak production, with an estimated investment of $75 million. It will supply lightweight aluminum EV battery enclosures to the Mercedes-Benz electric battery assembly plant in Bibb County.

“It has been 25 years since Mercedes-Benz helped launch our automotive industry, and in that time, Alabama has grown to become a national leader in vehicle exports,” said Governor Kay Ivey. “I’m incredibly excited to welcome Dura Automotive Systems to Alabama’s booming automotive industry, and I look forward to seeing this company continue to grow in our great state.”

The Alabama facility is Dura’s most recent addition to a growing family of worldwide sites and home to the company’s first lightweight structures investment in North America. The premier site is designed to support the rapid production of luxury electric vehicles planned throughout the next decade.

The high-tech manufacturing processes at Dura’s Alabama facility will utilize advanced robotics and proprietary forming and joining technologies to create lightweight structures used for EV battery systems.

“This milestone event celebrates our continued partnership with customers to accelerate the transition to electrified, high-performance vehicles,” said Dura CEO Carl Beckwith. “On behalf of Dura and our investors, I extend appreciation to our employees, Mercedes-Benz, and the many individuals in the government and supply base that worked above and beyond to make this vision a reality. Your accomplishment adds yet another steppingstone along the path toward a zero-emission future.”

The Muscle Shoals factory boasts significant safety, efficiency, and environmentally clean processes. These include:

A symphony of more than 60 robots, trained and conducted by technical experts, is deployed throughout manufacturing.
More than 500 light curtains, lasers, and proximity switches are active to ensure safety for personnel throughout the site.
Extensive LED lighting throughout the building is controlled through motion activation to minimize energy consumption.
Advanced water treatment systems fed by reverse osmosis processes reduce water consumption and protect the clean water supply.
“I am thrilled with the teamwork employed to build this impressive new facility and even more excited about the career opportunities it creates,” said Paul Underwood, Dura’s Muscle Shoals Plant Manager. “This was a truly collaborative effort with local and global technology experts working hand-in-hand to bring to life an amazing site that will be the foundation for additional job creation in our community.”

Planning and construction of the new facility were completed in just eight months, leveraging the collaborative efforts of Dura technical teams, suppliers, and government officials.

Dura’s new Alabama facility is becoming operational as Mercedes makes preparations to begin building two luxury EV sport utilities at its 6 million-square-foot assembly plant in Tuscaloosa County this year.

“The opening of Dura’s highly advanced EV battery enclosure manufacturing facility in Muscle Shoals reflects the expanding capabilities of the automotive supply chain for electric vehicle production in Alabama,” said Greg Canfield, Secretary of the Alabama Department of Commerce. “Our auto sector is fully focused on what the future holds for the industry and will continue to evolve to meet all challenges.”