Sunday, July 10, 2022 – Eastern Ukraine town Chasiv Yar was hit by a Russian rocket, destroying a five-story apartment building and leaving at least six people dead.

The governor of the Donetsk region, Pavlo Kyrylenko, said the town of about 12,000 was hit by Uragan rockets from truck-borne systems. Chasiv Yar, about 20 kilometers (12 miles) southeast of Kramatorsk, is a city expected to be an essential target of Russian forces as they grind westward.

Luhansk and the Donetsk region are the two provinces that make up the Donbas region, where separatist rebels have fought Ukrainian forces since 2014. Russia captured the city of Lysychansk last week, the last major stronghold of the Ukrainian resistance in Luhansk.

On Saturday, Luhansk governor, Serhiy Haidai said that Russian forces are raising “true hell” in the Donbas, despite assessments that they are taking operational rest. But, “So far, there has been no operational pause announced by the enemy. He is still attacking and shelling our lands with the same intensity as before,” Haidai said.

Source: USA Today 
Saturday, August 27, 2022 - A meeting on nuclear disarmament that has been going on for the past 1 month failed the United Nations when Russia refused to accept the final draft of the treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.

As part of the effort to reduce nuclear risks and stop the expansion of nuclear arsenals around the world, there is a review of the treaty every five years.

United Nations Ambassador Gustavo Zlauvinen said there had been attempts from Russia to amend the treaty, which would have "produced chaos" at this late stage in the negotiations.

Beatrice Fihn, the group's Executive Director, said, "This result is terminally insertions and a total abdication of responsibility in the face of an unacceptably dangerous global situation." He also added that the nuclear-armed state has failed to make progress on their disarmament, and they have spent over $82 billion on maintaining their arsenal.

Source: CNN
Sunday, September 11, 2022 - On Sunday, the authorities of India confirmed the arrest of a man who had masterminded the creation of many shell companies linked with China and appointed dummy directors to run the Fraudulent businesses.

The most recent arrest was part of a larger probe launched by the federal government's Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) against the Shell companies’ founders used in conducting illegal transactions.

In a statement from SFIO, they confirmed they had arrested a man called Dortse, who was on the board of Jillian India Ltd, a Jillian Hong Kong Ltd subsidiary, and had conducted multiple raids to unearth the scam.

The Indian Express newspaper reported that two company directors, including a Chinese national, had been arrested by the local Police for their alleged involvement in providing dummy directors to shell companies linked to China.

Source: Reuters 
Automotive giant Ford is shoring up its battery supply chain — partly by importing lower-cost, iron-based batteries popular in China — as it sprints to increase electric vehicle production.

Why it matters: Employing cheaper, safer and more durable iron batteries could accelerate demand for mass-market electric vehicles (EVs), and help automakers sidestep nickel and cobalt supply problems that have been driving up EV prices.

The big picture: Carmakers' plans to shift away from gasoline-powered vehicles won't succeed unless they can secure reliable battery supplies. But with raw materials in short supply — and sourced primarily in Asia — the battery race is turning into a fierce geopolitical competition.

Driving the news: Ford said Thursday it had lined up enough batteries to meet its short-term goal of producing 600,000 EVs annually by 2023, up dramatically from the 27,140 battery-powered cars it sold in the U.S. last year.

The company, which is spending $50 billion to expand its EV lineup, also said it was 70% to its goal of securing enough batteries to produce 2 million EVs annually by 2026.
Ford announced a slew of supplier deals and partnerships — including contracts to buy raw materials directly from mining companies, as other automakers have done.
Details: One way Ford intends to meet its EV targets: adding a second type of battery chemistry to its lineup called lithium iron phosphate (LFP), alongside its existing nickel cobalt manganese (NCM) chemistry.

It will initially import LFP battery packs from China's Contemporary Amperex Technology Co., Ltd. (CATL) for its Mustang Mach-E and F-150 Lightning pickup, starting next year.
But Ford also wants to produce LFP batteries in North America, and plans to open a 40-GWh LFP cell factory by 2026. (That's in addition to three previously announced battery plants in Tennessee and Kentucky.)
Between the lines: Iron and phosphorous are abundant, which is why LFP cells cost at least 30% less than today's nickel- and cobalt-based batteries, Sam Abuelsamid, principal analyst at Guidehouse Insights, explains in Forbes.

And they're less likely to catch fire because the chemistry is more stable.
Yes, but: LFP batteries pack 30% less energy than similarly-sized nickel-rich batteries, which translates into shorter driving range.

This isn't a huge issue in China because buyers there care more about price and durability than driving range.
But Americans, who aspire to take long road trips, want longer-range EVs capable of going 300 miles or more between charges.
Instead of installing a larger battery to meet their range expectations, carmakers can squeeze more LFP cells into battery packs by redesigning their module structure, per Abuelsamid.
What to watch: Tesla increasingly uses cobalt-free LFP batteries in its entry-level vehicles, and it's expected Ford and others will too.

Meanwhile, nickel-based batteries will be used for pricier performance cars.
What they're saying: "We know that the battery material cost is where the war will be won in the short term," said Lisa Drake, vice president of EV industrialization for Ford's Model e division.