Friday, June 17, 2022 – Ukraine’s bid to join the European Union received a major boost on Friday. This came after the bloc’s Executives said it believed the country should be formally considered for candidate status due to Russia’s invasion.

The European Commission’s President, Ursula von der Leyen, who spoke in Brussels, said the commission recommends “that Ukraine is given candidate status." This is, of course, on the understanding that the country will carry out a number of further reforms.

Another country that the commission recommended for candidate status is Ukraine’s neighbor, Moldova. The leaders of the 27 EU member states are set to meet for a summit next week to discuss their options. 

Volodymyr Zelensky said at a joint press conference in Kyiv on Thursday that Russia’s attack on his country amounted to an attack on all of Europe. Among those who were present at the conference were the German Chancellor, French President, and Italian Prime Minister.

Source: CNN 
Monday, April 11, 2022 - Texas continues to experience incredibly bad weather severe storms continue from last week, including thunderstorms, wind, and widespread showers. Along with this adverse weather, several tornadoes were formed in the wake of the storms as they passed with a series of twisters formed just north of Austin, Texas. Some of the funnel clouds were incredibly wide and were accompanied by hail the size of baseballs or oranges, pelting down on several rural areas, including Bell county. According to witnesses and residents alike, the tornadoes wreaked an insurmountable amount of damage, destroying houses, uprooting trees, and eliminating power supplies throughout the area, injuring 23 people. The state of Iowa, 900 miles away, has also issued tornado warnings.
Source: New York Post
Sunday, June 12, 2022 - Chinese Defense Minister Wei Fenghe said that ties were at a critical stage with the US and that it was up to the United States to improve the bilateral relationship. He also added that China firmly rejected “US smearing, accusation and even threats.”

Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said on Saturday that the number of unsafe and unprofessional encounters between Chinese planes and vessels with those of other countries is increasing at an alarming rate. He added that the United States would stand by its allies, including Taiwan.

At the meeting, Russia’s invasion of Ukraine took center stage. Wei said China supported peace talks and opposed “providing, applying maximum pressure.” He added that China had not provided any material support to Russia.

A senior fellow at the International Institute for Strategic Studies, Meia Nouwens, said Wei’s speech was consistent with Beijing’s line on the Russia-Ukraine issue.

Source: Reuters 
As the world embarks on an electric vehicle (EV) boom, a new report by the Coalition for a Prosperous America (CPA) highlights a serious challenge facing the United States—an EV battery crisis. There are several reasons for this, including weak investment in advanced technologies, limited access to critical minerals and a lack of federal policies to promote R&D and manufacturing. 

An adequate supply chain for lithium-ion batteries—the single most important component in the EV—simply doesn’t exist. While some of America's automotive companies are making an effort to build their own supply chain, others continue to rely on production-outsourcing and importing. In response, the auto industry needs to step up its efforts—and its investment dollars. And Congress must implement a strategy to stimulate domestic battery production, including cost-effective and environmentally safe mining of critical minerals here in the United States.

The EV battery problem is now serious enough that Rivian CEO RJ Scaringe recently warned that 90% to 95% of the battery supply chain “does not exist.” And Tesla CEO Elon Musk cautions that prices for lithium have already “gone to insane levels.” 

China is the world’s leader in EV battery production—with over 12 times the output of the United States. CPA’s research found that both China and Europe will continue to outpace the U.S. in EV battery production. By 2025, China will account for 56% of global battery production; the U.S. will account for just 19%.

Right now, much of the U.S. auto industry relies on foreign-owned battery technology—and focuses mainly on final assembly of batteries instead of the more complex challenge of designing and producing battery components. This contributes only a relatively small share of the value of overall battery manufacturing. Instead, America’s EV manufacturers need to jump into technical design, including innovation, intellectual property, and the materials science of battery component manufacturing—not just the assembly.

Mining remains a key challenge, too. EV batteries require nickel, lithium, manganese, and cobalt—elements not easily accessible to American producers due to highly restrictive U.S. mining policies. As a result, the U.S. remains dependent on imports for battery production. Currently, the U.S. only has one lithium-producing mine, and still imports the majority of its lithium. Nickel is in tight supply as well due to the conflict in Ukraine—with Russia and China among the world’s largest nickel producers. The U.S. only has one operating nickel mine; it’s slated to close by 2025.

Congress must ease mining restrictions while still maintaining America’s world-leading environmental standards. But federal policy must also address China’s massive subsidies for its state-owned factories, as well as its quotas and localized content requirements. That will require a rethink of U.S. trade policy—to help domestic producers find breathing room to develop new technologies and processes. 

The Biden administration should encourage the private sector to invest in U.S. battery production, and aim to meet much of America’s EV needs in five to 10 years. This could be accomplished through tax credits and other incentives for both component manufacturing and battery assembly.

America’s EV battery gap is widening. However, this challenge can pose a real opportunity for U.S. companies. It’s time for Washington to take aggressive action to stimulate the domestic mining of critical battery materials, battery component production and final battery assembly. Doing so could help America achieve greater self-sufficiency in one of the major industries of the coming decades.

Amanda Mayoral is an economist at the Coalition for a Prosperous America. 