Sunday, July 17, 2022 – Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskiy abruptly fired the head of Ukraine’s powerful domestic security agency, the SBU. The state prosecutor general says there are a great number of cases of collaboration with Russia by officials in their agencies. 

The Executive Order, which was released on Friday, saw the abrupt sackings of SBU chief Ivan Bakanov, Zelenskiy’s childhood friend, and the prosecutor general, Iryna Venediktova, who played a key role in the prosecution of Russian war crimes. It was announced on the President’s website.

He said over 60 officials from Venediktova and Bakanov’s agencies have started working against Ukraine in Russian-occupied territories, and 651 alleged treason cases and collaborations have been opened against prosecutorial and law enforcement officials.

Zalenskiy said, “Such an array of crimes against the foundations of the national security of the state pose very serious questions to the leaders,” and vowed that every question will receive a proper answer.

Source: The Guardian 
Monday, July 18, 2022 – Different places in the world have reported unprecedented levels of temperatures. 40C temperatures were reported in the U.K., the highest ever reported in the country’s history. 

Many people have fled from wildfires in France, Portugal, and Spain. Similar reports were given across North America. Smoke and soot blurred out the daylight in Argentina and Paraguay.

Experts have claimed that the vegetation around the world has become more flammable, and the soil is growing dry due to climate change. All of these factors increased the likelihood of wildfires occurring. Experts have advised that the governments of countries affected by the heatwave make plans to adapt to increasing temperatures as the years go by. 

Experts have shown that the Savannahs make up 70% of the world’s wildfires. The trend of fires, however, has been different in Africa. This is owing to changes in land usage, especially the rise of agricultural expansion. As it was reduced, it also led to an overall reduction of wildfires around the globe.

Source: BBC 
Wednesday, July 13, 2022 – The President of Sri Lanka, Gotabaya Rajapaksa, hours before his resignation, fled the country to the Maldives on a military jet. This results from anti-government protesters taking over his presidential palace and office.

As protesters continued storming government offices, the Prime Minister, Ranil Wickremesinghe, declared a state of emergency after the President’s departure. Wickremesinghe has been appointed the acting President by Rajapaksa, A Sri Lankan official said.

Sri Lanka’s air force made a statement to confirm Rajapaksa’s departure on Wednesday after he invoked executive powers to enable his escape. “Under the provisions of the constitution and on a request by the government, the Sri Lanka air force provided a plane early today to fly the president, his wife, and two security officials to the Maldives.” They arrived in Male, the capital of Maldives, at 3 am.

Source: The Guardian 
Panasonic is doubling down on battery production as sales of electric vehicles continue to rise, dominated by its customer Tesla. Electric vehicle sales reached a record high in Q2, rising 13% over the previous quarter according to consulting firm Cox Automotive, with Tesla making up 66% of the segment.

To help meet that demand, Panasonic has been working to grow its production capacity on multiple fronts. The company published plans in April to invest 400 billion yen (approximately $2.9 billion) in “growth areas” including automotive batteries and supply chain software, according to company statements.

In December, Panasonic Energy of North America announced plans to build a production campus in Reno, Nevada, adding to the existing production it has at Tesla’s Gigafactory 1 site in Sparks, Nevada. Panasonic has faced pressure from Tesla, which has asked the company to expedite battery production, Bloomberg reported.

EV battery production is heating up across the country. For example, LG Energy Solutions announced two facility plans this year to up capacity, including the announcement of a third battery cell manufacturing plant with GM in Michigan, as well as a battery factory in Arizona.

At least 13 EV battery manufacturing sites are slated to open in the U.S. in the coming years as of last December, with sites on the way from the likes of Ford, Stellantis and Volkswagen, according to the U.S. Department of Energy. Locations are largely concentrated in the Midwest and the South.

New government funding has also helped with the production push. In May, the Biden administration made $3.1 billion in battery and component manufacturing, recycling and second-life incentives available through the Department of Energy. The Panasonic project, expected to create an estimated 4,000 jobs, received incentives through Kansas’ Attracting Powerful Economic Expansion program.

“Kansas has an impressive history of being home to a skilled manufacturing workforce,” said Kris Takamoto, executive vice president of Panasonic Energy and head of EV Battery Business. “We appreciate Kansas’s dedication to sustainability and its commitment to and growth in the clean and renewable energy space.”