Monday, July 4, 2022 – Ukrainian forces are prepared to hoist the national flag on Snake Island, a strategically significant outpost in the Black Sea, after Russian troops withdrew following months of intense shelling.

Ukraine has viewed control of the island as a crucial first step in easing Moscow’s embargo of its southern ports even though it is exposed to bombing. It remained unclear if Ukrainian soldiers would try to maintain a long-term presence there.

It gained international attention when Russia originally took control of Snake Island in February. Ukrainian forces have made multiple attempts to recover it since Russia assumed control.

Russia said it had left the island on Thursday as a “gesture of goodwill,” demonstrating that it was not impeding United Nations efforts to build a humanitarian corridor. Volodymyr Zelenskiy stated that although the withdrawal did not ensure the security of the Black Sea region, it would “seriously limit” Russian activity there.

Source: The Guardian 
Friday, July 29, 2022 - Russia’s defense ministry made a statement that 40 Ukrainian war prisoners had been killed by Ukrainian shelling of a prison held by separatists in Donetsk, but Ukraine’s military denied carrying out such an operation and instead said it was Russia that shelled the prison. 

Ukraine’s General Staff said the Russian occupants pursued their goals to accuse Ukraine of committing ‘war crimes.’ He also said, “the Russian reports aim to hide the torture of prisoners and shootings committed there by the orders of the occupation administration and the command of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation.” 

A spokesperson of the Russian-backed separatist Donetsk People’s Republic, Daniil Bezsonov, stated that the strike was a “direct hit on a barracks holding prisoners.” There might be an increase in the number of people killed. 

The Russian defense ministry also claimed that US-made Himars artillery was used to carry out the operation and accused Ukraine of a deliberately perpetrated provocation.

Source: BBC
Wednesday, July 20, 2022 – The former Sri Lanka Prime Minister, Ranil Wickremesinghe, was elected by the lawmakers as the president of the crisis-hit South Asian country. This move will likely anger the protesters since they have demanded his removal from office for weeks.

Wickremesinghe, who is a six-time former prime minister and an essential ally of the former President, Gotabaya Rajapaksa, won a parliamentary ballot after his predecessor ran away from the country due to an escalating protest over an economic crisis marked by a dire shortage of essential imports such as food, medicine, and fuel. He received 134 votes out of a possible 223.

While Wickremesinghe addressed the country shortly after being elected president by the lawmakers, he said, “While the country has been divided into party lines, the time has come to work together.”

As the voting was in progress, a small group of protesters gathered at the president’s residence to protest Wickremesinghe’s nomination.

Source: CNN 
Volkswagen said it would invest $20.38 billion to build electric vehicle batteries, a move the company says will create 20,000 jobs and generate $20.38 billion in annual sales. The automaker will create a new company called Power Co to oversee the vast effort as VW races to secure enough capacity, materials, and supplies to power its EV ambitions.

Power Co will manage VW’s entire battery supply chain, from research and development of new technologies to the mining of the raw materials to end-of-life recycling. The news was announced at a groundbreaking ceremony for the company’s first battery plant in Salzgitter, a city in Germany’s Lower Saxony.

“The battery cell business is one of the cornerstones of our New Auto strategy which will make Volkswagen a leading provider of the sustainable, software-driven mobility of tomorrow,” VW CEO Herbert Diess said in a statement. “Establishing our own cell factory is a megaproject in technical and economic terms. It shows that we are bringing the leading-edge technology of the future to Germany!”

Last year, VW unveiled plans to build six battery cell production plants in Europe by 2030, including the facility in Salzgitter and one in Skelleftea, Sweden. A third plant will be established in Valencia, Spain, and the fourth factory will be based in Eastern Europe. The company is also exploring plans to build future gigafactories in North America. The plants will eventually have a production capacity of 240 gigawatt-hours a year.

Starting in 2023, VW plans to roll out a new unified prismatic cell design of its batteries that will be installed across the automaker’s brands. The goal is to have this unified cell design powering up to 80 percent of VW’s electric vehicles by 2030. VW also has contracts with two other major battery producers, Samsung and CATL. And the company is backing a startup based in San Jose, California, QuantumScape, which is working on more energy-efficient solid-state batteries.

VW isn’t the only automaker to see vertical integration as a key component to EV success. Ford is building three new battery plants that it says will have 129 GWh a year of production capacity. General Motors is planning four new battery factories in the US with LG Chem for a total annual capacity of 140 GWh. Stellantis is building a $2.5 billion battery plant in Indiana, and Hyundai and Toyota have also announced cell production plans in the US.

VW, which is the second-largest automaker in the world based on volume, has run into headwinds in its shift to electric vehicles. Diess recently said that the company was “basically sold out on electric vehicles in Europe and in the United States for the year,” which means that anyone hoping to get an EV from VW, Audi, or any of the group’s other brands may have to wait until 2023, as the company tries to navigate the chip shortage and production issues from COVID shutdowns in China.
