Monday, April 11, 2022 - The European Union is discussing further sanction packages to be levied against Russia, and the country and its military continue its invasion of Ukraine. According to the Danish Foreign Minister, Jeppe Kofod, several EU leaders have been building sanctions regarding oil and other economic deterrents.

This comes on the heels of Russia's brutal involvement in the Kyiv suburb of Bucha, where the bodies of slain Ukrainian civilians have continued to be unearthed since Russian forces withdrew at the end of last week. Leaders of Ireland, Lithuania, and Denmark, among others, are involved with this next round of sanctions against Russia and hope the parameters placed on essential raw resources will promote the country's withdrawal from Ukraine without further violence.
Source: CNN
Monday, May 23, 2022 – Boris Bondarev, a counselor at the Russian permanent mission to the United Nations in Geneva, resigned from his diplomat position.

Since the war broke out in February, the 20-year veteran has been the only high-level diplomat yet to resign from the Russian foreign ministry. He is the counselor on arms control at the Russian diplomatic mission in Geneva.

He termed the war an aggressive move by Putin that is all about “lies, warmongering, and hatred.” He further emphasized that other diplomats feel the same way about the situation but are unlikely to speak out.

Hillel Neuer, the executive director of the Geneva-based human rights organization UN Watch has commended Bodnarev and urged other diplomats to follow his example.

Bodnarev was asked about a possible return back to Russia following his resignation. He said, “that would not be a very good idea right now.”

Source: The Guardian
Wednesday, June 22, 2022 – Tens of thousands of people in southern China have been evacuated due to flooding, and more rain is expected.

Guangdong’s manufacturing hub suspended classes, office work, and public transportation due to rising waters and the threat of landslides. Almost 500,000 people in the neighboring province of Jiangxi have had their homes damaged and their lives uprooted.

In Guangdong, roughly the same number of people have been affected, primarily in Shaoguan, Heyuan, and Meizhou.

During the summer months, flooding is common in China, particularly in the central and southern regions that receive the most rainfall. The worst floods in recent years in China occurred in 1998 when over 2,000 people died, and nearly 3 million homes were destroyed, mostly along China’s largest river, the Yangtze.

The government has significantly invested in flood control and hydroelectric projects, such as the massive Three Gorges Dam on the Yangtze River.

Source: The Guardian 
6月23日，宁德时代发布第三代CTP——麒麟电池，系统集成度创全球新高，体积利用率突破72%，能量密度可达255Wh/kg，轻松实现整车1000公里续航。

1.2 CTP 3.0麒麟电池性能 CTP 3.0 Qilin Battery Performance.png

宁德时代从电化学本质出发，持续拓展系统结构的创新边界。2019年，宁德时代在全球首创了无模组电池包CTP，率先使电池体积利用率突破50%大关。如今，伴随核心工艺、核心算法、核心材料的全方位提升，宁德时代以麒麟之名重新定义电池结构设计。

突破功能边界 麒麟电池整合使用需求，将横纵梁、水冷板与隔热垫合三为一，集成为多功能弹性夹层。在夹层内搭建微米桥连接装置，灵活配合电芯呼吸进行自由伸缩，提升电芯全生命周期可靠性。而电芯与多功能弹性夹层组成的一体化能量单元，在垂直于行车方向上构建更稳固的受力结构，提高了电池包抗振动、冲击能力。


重塑空间结构 宁德时代以精准计算与AI模拟仿真探索麒麟电池全生命周期应用场景的设计边界。独创底部空间共享方案，将结构防护、高压连接、热失控排气等功能模块进行智能分布，释放了6%的能量空间。同时，能满足底部球击等国标电池安全测试要求。


颠覆传统水冷 全球首创的电芯大面冷却技术，基于电芯的变化，将水冷功能置于电芯之间，使换热面积扩大四倍。电芯控温时间缩短至原来的一半，支持5分钟快速热启动及10分钟快充。并且，在极端情况时，电芯可急速降温，有效阻隔电芯间的异常热量传导。麒麟电池可实现全化学体系的热稳定、热安全，从而适配更高能量密度的材料升级。

7. 5分钟热启动 十分钟快充 5min Hot Start 10min Fast Charging.png

宁德时代将系统工程思维贯彻从材料、电芯到系统结构的研发全链条。通过三大技术革新，麒麟电池可将三元电池系统能量密度提升至255Wh/kg，磷酸铁锂电池系统能量密度提升至160Wh/kg。在相同的化学体系、同等电池包尺寸下，麒麟电池包的电量，相比4680系统可以提升13%，实现了续航、快充、安全、寿命、效率、以及低温性能的全面提升。

9. CTP 3.0 麒麟电池性能 vs. 4680 Qilin Battery vs. 4680.png

麒麟电池将于2023年量产上市。从微观世界的模拟计算，到电池结构内部的化繁为简，宁德时代始终聚焦技术本源，自主创新，不断自我超越，助推电动汽车实现对燃油车的全面超越。