Sunday, June 12, 2022 - Chinese Defense Minister Wei Fenghe said that ties were at a critical stage with the US and that it was up to the United States to improve the bilateral relationship. He also added that China firmly rejected “US smearing, accusation and even threats.”

Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said on Saturday that the number of unsafe and unprofessional encounters between Chinese planes and vessels with those of other countries is increasing at an alarming rate. He added that the United States would stand by its allies, including Taiwan.

At the meeting, Russia’s invasion of Ukraine took center stage. Wei said China supported peace talks and opposed “providing, applying maximum pressure.” He added that China had not provided any material support to Russia.

A senior fellow at the International Institute for Strategic Studies, Meia Nouwens, said Wei’s speech was consistent with Beijing’s line on the Russia-Ukraine issue.

Source: Reuters 
Monday, May 23, 2022 – Boris Bondarev, a counselor at the Russian permanent mission to the United Nations in Geneva, resigned from his diplomat position.

Since the war broke out in February, the 20-year veteran has been the only high-level diplomat yet to resign from the Russian foreign ministry. He is the counselor on arms control at the Russian diplomatic mission in Geneva.

He termed the war an aggressive move by Putin that is all about “lies, warmongering, and hatred.” He further emphasized that other diplomats feel the same way about the situation but are unlikely to speak out.

Hillel Neuer, the executive director of the Geneva-based human rights organization UN Watch has commended Bodnarev and urged other diplomats to follow his example.

Bodnarev was asked about a possible return back to Russia following his resignation. He said, “that would not be a very good idea right now.”

Source: The Guardian
Friday, June 17, 2022 – Ukraine’s bid to join the European Union received a major boost on Friday. This came after the bloc’s Executives said it believed the country should be formally considered for candidate status due to Russia’s invasion.

The European Commission’s President, Ursula von der Leyen, who spoke in Brussels, said the commission recommends “that Ukraine is given candidate status." This is, of course, on the understanding that the country will carry out a number of further reforms.

Another country that the commission recommended for candidate status is Ukraine’s neighbor, Moldova. The leaders of the 27 EU member states are set to meet for a summit next week to discuss their options. 

Volodymyr Zelensky said at a joint press conference in Kyiv on Thursday that Russia’s attack on his country amounted to an attack on all of Europe. Among those who were present at the conference were the German Chancellor, French President, and Italian Prime Minister.

Source: CNN 
GM has signed a multi-year sourcing agreement for the supply of cobalt from Glencore’s mining operation in Australia. Both are members of the Responsible Minerals Initiative

Cobalt is an important metal in the production of EV batteries. The material processed from Australia will be used in GM’s Ultium battery cathodes, which will support models such as the Chevrolet Silverado EV, GMC Hummer EV and Cadillac LYRIQ.  

“GM and our suppliers are building an EV ecosystem that is focused on sourcing critical raw materials in a secure sustainable manner,” said Jeff Morrison, GM vice president, Global Purchasing and Supply Chain. “Importantly, given the critical role of EVs in reducing the carbon footprint of the transportation sector, this agreement is aligned with our approach to responsible sourcing and supply chain management.”