Sunday, July 10, 2022 – Eastern Ukraine town Chasiv Yar was hit by a Russian rocket, destroying a five-story apartment building and leaving at least six people dead.

The governor of the Donetsk region, Pavlo Kyrylenko, said the town of about 12,000 was hit by Uragan rockets from truck-borne systems. Chasiv Yar, about 20 kilometers (12 miles) southeast of Kramatorsk, is a city expected to be an essential target of Russian forces as they grind westward.

Luhansk and the Donetsk region are the two provinces that make up the Donbas region, where separatist rebels have fought Ukrainian forces since 2014. Russia captured the city of Lysychansk last week, the last major stronghold of the Ukrainian resistance in Luhansk.

On Saturday, Luhansk governor, Serhiy Haidai said that Russian forces are raising “true hell” in the Donbas, despite assessments that they are taking operational rest. But, “So far, there has been no operational pause announced by the enemy. He is still attacking and shelling our lands with the same intensity as before,” Haidai said.

Source: USA Today 
Monday, September 26, 2022 – Officials confirm that at least 15 people were killed and 24 injured, when a gunman opened fire at a school in central Russia. Among the victims were 11 children, at the school of a population of about 1,000 pupils in the city of Izhevsk. The gunman, who happened to be a former student of the school killed himself at the scene.

From the video posted online, there was panic inside the building where the shooting took place, where children and adults were seen running along the corridors. From other footage, blood was seen on the floor of the classroom and a bullet hole in a window, with children crouching underneath desks.

According to Russia’s investigative committee, eleven children and four adults were killed, including two security guards and two teachers. Of the 24 that were injured, only two of them were not children.

Source: BBC
Wednesday, August 3, 2022 – The US House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, the most senior US politician to visit Taiwan in 25 years, departed on Wednesday after meeting with leaders in Taipei’s capital. 

The Chinese government accused the United States of violating China’s sovereignty under the disguise of democracy. Wang Yi, Foreign Minister of China, said, “those who play with fire will not come to a good end, and those who offend China will be punished.” 

In a statement following the visit, Nancy Pelosi said that China cannot “prevent world leaders or anyone from traveling to Taiwan to pay respect to its flourishing democracy, highlight its many successes, and reaffirm our commitment to continued collaboration.” 

Pelosi’s visit was not approved by her party colleague, President Joe Biden, who had said the American military felt it was “not a good idea right now” considering the high tension between the two countries.

Source: BBC 
Volkswagen said it would invest $20.38 billion to build electric vehicle batteries, a move the company says will create 20,000 jobs and generate $20.38 billion in annual sales. The automaker will create a new company called Power Co to oversee the vast effort as VW races to secure enough capacity, materials, and supplies to power its EV ambitions.

Power Co will manage VW’s entire battery supply chain, from research and development of new technologies to the mining of the raw materials to end-of-life recycling. The news was announced at a groundbreaking ceremony for the company’s first battery plant in Salzgitter, a city in Germany’s Lower Saxony.

“The battery cell business is one of the cornerstones of our New Auto strategy which will make Volkswagen a leading provider of the sustainable, software-driven mobility of tomorrow,” VW CEO Herbert Diess said in a statement. “Establishing our own cell factory is a megaproject in technical and economic terms. It shows that we are bringing the leading-edge technology of the future to Germany!”

Last year, VW unveiled plans to build six battery cell production plants in Europe by 2030, including the facility in Salzgitter and one in Skelleftea, Sweden. A third plant will be established in Valencia, Spain, and the fourth factory will be based in Eastern Europe. The company is also exploring plans to build future gigafactories in North America. The plants will eventually have a production capacity of 240 gigawatt-hours a year.

Starting in 2023, VW plans to roll out a new unified prismatic cell design of its batteries that will be installed across the automaker’s brands. The goal is to have this unified cell design powering up to 80 percent of VW’s electric vehicles by 2030. VW also has contracts with two other major battery producers, Samsung and CATL. And the company is backing a startup based in San Jose, California, QuantumScape, which is working on more energy-efficient solid-state batteries.

VW isn’t the only automaker to see vertical integration as a key component to EV success. Ford is building three new battery plants that it says will have 129 GWh a year of production capacity. General Motors is planning four new battery factories in the US with LG Chem for a total annual capacity of 140 GWh. Stellantis is building a $2.5 billion battery plant in Indiana, and Hyundai and Toyota have also announced cell production plans in the US.

VW, which is the second-largest automaker in the world based on volume, has run into headwinds in its shift to electric vehicles. Diess recently said that the company was “basically sold out on electric vehicles in Europe and in the United States for the year,” which means that anyone hoping to get an EV from VW, Audi, or any of the group’s other brands may have to wait until 2023, as the company tries to navigate the chip shortage and production issues from COVID shutdowns in China.
