Monday, May 8, 2023 — Russia launched fresh waves of drones and missile strikes on Ukraine. Explosions were heard in Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv, overnight. The mayor confirmed that five people had been injured in what he described as the most significant kamikaze drone attack so far.

Ukrainian military confirmed that the latest attack by Russia was launched shortly after midnight and lasted for over four hours. Iranian-made Shahed kamikaze drones were seen all across the country. The Mayor of Kyiv, Vitaliy Klitschko, said close to 60 drones were launched by Russia, which makes it the most significant attack of such.

The military administration of Kyiv said emergency services responded after wreckages of drones fell on a runway at Khuliany international airport, which is one of the city’s two commercial airports. The President of Ukraine announced that May 9 would be celebrated as Europe Day.

Source: BBC 
Sunday, May 7, 2023 — A spokesperson of the Arab League said that the foreign ministers of the Arab League had adopted a decision to have Syria readmitted into the league after more than a decade of suspension. The membership of Syria in the Arab League was suspended in 2011.

The decision, it means Syria could resume its participation in Arab League meetings with immediate effect. They also called for a resolution of the crisis resulting from Syria’s civil war, which includes the flight of refugees to neighboring countries and drug smuggling across the region.

According to the decision on Sunday, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Lebanon, Egypt, and the Secretary General of the Arab League would form a ministerial contact group to liaise with the Syrian government and seek a steady solution to the crisis.

Source: Reuters 
Sunday, June 4, 2023 – An alleged Russian strike in a residential area of Ukraine city, Dnipro, has killed a little girl who is two years old and also left 22 people injured. The governor of the region said the girl's body was pulled out from the rubble of a house in the Pidhorodneska community. Five out of the injured people were children, with three boys in critical condition in the hospital, Serhiy Lysak confirmed. 

The President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, has blamed Russia for the attack. However, no comment has been made about Kremlin concerning the attack. The President described the attack in Dnipro as a deliberate attack, even though Russia had previously denied targeting residential area

Also, explosions were heard in Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv, where the air defense system was again used.

Source: BBC
Ford Motor Company announced long-term contracts with multiple lithium suppliers last week as the automaker moves to secure the raw materials needed to scale its electric vehicle production.

As Ford aims to produce 600,000 EVs this year and more than 2 million units by 2026, the automaker has spent the last year securing ongoing access to the critical minerals needed for its EV vehicles and batteries.

The company is working to develop a more sustainable North American battery supply chain, which will help “fortify and de-risk our plans for sourcing the key minerals we need to make EVs more accessible for our customers longer-term,” Lisa Drake, Ford’s vice president of EV Industrialization, Model e, said in an Albemarle release.

Ford’s recent lithium supplier agreements
The automaker’s latest lithium supply deals span three countries, with partnerships guaranteed through at least 2034.

In addition to the supplier partnership between Albemarle and Ford, the two companies will also explore options to develop a closed-loop solution for lithium-ion battery recycling.

The automaker has been working to broaden its supplier pool amid worries of limited raw material supply, securing mineral agreements in Asia, South America and North America. In April, Ford added to its trove of suppliers by investing in an Indonesia-based nickel facility. The site is set to open in 2026.

Ford’s growing list of suppliers will help the automaker fulfill its planned capacity additions, especially as the company expands its EV production sites across the U.S. In February, Ford announced a $3.5 billion investment for its first lithium iron phosphate EV battery plant in Michigan.


