Monday, December 25, 2023 – A Russian opposition leader, Alexei Navalny, who was jailed has been found in a remote prison colony above the Arctic Circle after he went missing for over three weeks. His spokesperson confirmed that they tracked Navalny down to the IK-3 penal colony in Kharp, which is about 1,200 miles northeast of Moscow.

Navalny was sentenced to close to three decades in jail after he started a nationwide political opposition against President Vladimir Putin. He then disappeared from a prison in the Vladimir region close to Moscow on December 6. Three lawyers who were representing Navalny were previously detained by Russian authorities so that they could isolate him completely.

Navalny was previously poisoned in Russia in 2020, after which he was evacuated to Germany for treatment. He returned to Russia in 2021, after which he was arrested and sentenced to 30 decades in prison on charges of fraud.

Source: The Guardian 
Wednesday, December 27, 2023 – Eight North Korean citizens have been sanctioned by South Korea because they are linked to nuclear and missile development through arms trade, cyberattacks other illicit activities. The sanctions came days after an intercontinental ballistic missile was fired by North Korea. This action was strongly condemned by South Korea and the United States because it violates the resolution of the Security Council of the United Nations.

Part of the people that were blacklisted include Ri Chang Ho, head of the Reconnaissance General Bureau which is involved in overseas hacking operations, and Yun Chol who assisted in supplying nuclear materials while working with the North Korean Embassy in China.

Since October 2022, a total of 83 individuals and 53 entities related to North Korea’s weapons program have been blacklisted by South Korea.

Source: Reuters
Wednesday, November 22, 2023 – Both Israel and Hamas announced on Wednesday that they have agreed to a four-day ceasefire. Alongside the ceasefire deal, 50 women and children that are held hostage in Gaza would be released, in return for 150 Palestinian women and children. A senior United States official confirmed the deal, saying that three Americans would be included in the hostages that would be freed.

The President of the United States, Joe Biden, commended the deal and tanked Egypt and Qatar for their critical leadership and partnership in reaching the deal. The foreign ministry of Qatar said that the start time of the deal would be announced in the next 24 hours.

Alongside the deal, Israel also agreed to allow more aid to enter Gaza, which is suffering an acute humanitarian crisis, after being under serious attack for the past seven weeks.

Source: The Guardian
SEOUL, Oct 23 (Reuters) - South Korea's Samsung SDI (006400.KS), opens new tab said on Monday it will supply Hyundai Motor (005380.KS), opens new tab with electric vehicle (EV) batteries for seven years starting 2026, marking the first battery supply deal between the two companies.
"The latest supply deal marks the first ever partnership between Samsung and Hyundai Motor Group in the field of electric vehicle batteries," Samsung SDI said in a statement.
The battery maker, which supplies to General Motors Co (GM.N), opens new tab, Stellantis (STLAM.MI), opens new tab, and BMW (BMWG.DE), opens new tab among others, added that it will supply prismatic batteries manufactured at its factory in Hungary for Hyundai Motor's EVs targeting the European market from 2026 through 2032.
While Samsung SDI and Hyundai Motor did not disclose the size of the deal, Samsung SDI would likely supply EV batteries that could power about 500,000 EVs over the next seven years, an industry source familiar with the matter told Reuters.
Earlier this month, Samsung SDI said it plans to invest 2.7 trillion won ($2 billion) to build a second joint EV battery plant with Stellantis in the U.S. state of Indiana, targeting to start production in 2027.
Shares of Samsung SDI were trading up 0.3%, versus benchmark KOSPI's (.KS11), opens new tab 0.1% fall as of 0203 GMT.