Friday, October 13, 2023 – Following the attack on Israel by Hamas militants, the Gaza Strip has seen a series of bombardments with bombs from Israel in a crisis that has grown to become a full-blown war. The Israeli Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu mentioned in an earlier report that “Gaza will be placed under a total blockade from food, water, fuel and electricity supply”.

As the crisis continues, Gaza is reportedly running out of fuel to power the generators that supply electricity to the only healthcare facilities left, and more than 50,000 pregnant women cannot access health services. The people of Gaza — about 1.1 million of them including women and children — have been instructed to move further south to avoid the Israeli bombardment against Hamas, and the blockade will not stop until Hamas releases the captured Israeli Hostages.

Since the beginning of the crisis over the past few days, 1,300 Israelis have died with Hamas holding about 150 hostages; retaliatory attacks from Israel have led to the death of 1,500 Palestinians, 338,000 people displaced, 19 healthcare facilities grounded 11 health workers killed, and 16 of them mortally wounded.

Source: BBC
Wednesday, December 27, 2023 – Eight North Korean citizens have been sanctioned by South Korea because they are linked to nuclear and missile development through arms trade, cyberattacks other illicit activities. The sanctions came days after an intercontinental ballistic missile was fired by North Korea. This action was strongly condemned by South Korea and the United States because it violates the resolution of the Security Council of the United Nations.

Part of the people that were blacklisted include Ri Chang Ho, head of the Reconnaissance General Bureau which is involved in overseas hacking operations, and Yun Chol who assisted in supplying nuclear materials while working with the North Korean Embassy in China.

Since October 2022, a total of 83 individuals and 53 entities related to North Korea’s weapons program have been blacklisted by South Korea.

Source: Reuters
Tuesday, October 3, 2023 – India has directed Canada to withdraw close to 40 diplomatic staff from its country. India confirmed that those who stayed past 10 October would lose their diplomatic immunity. 

Canada accused India last month of its involvement in the killing of Sikh separatist leader, Hardeep Singh Nijjar on Canadian Soil, an allegation that was denied by India. My Trudeau told the parliament of Canada that an investigation is being carried out by the country’s intelligence agencies to determine whether the agents of the government of India were involved in the killing of the separatist leader.

The Prime Minister of Canada, Justin Trudeau said on Tuesday that he does not plan to escalate the rift with India. He also added that both countries would continue to engage responsibly and constructively with one another.

Source: BBC 
WASHINGTON, Nov 13 (Reuters) - Democratic Senator Joe Manchin urged the U.S. Treasury on Monday to adopt the "strictest possible standards" to prevent Chinese-produced minerals or Chinese battery companies from winning electric vehicle tax credits.
Manchin, who chairs the Senate Energy Committee, raised concerns in a letter to Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen about reports Chinese battery companies are actively pursuing business opportunities to take advantage of the credits, adding U.S. tax credits "cannot be allowed to be hijacked by adversaries engaging in mineral laundering."
In 2022, Congress passed the Inflation Reduction Act barring $7,500 in future consumer EV tax credits if any battery components are manufactured or assembled by a "foreign entity of concern."
The rules were aimed at weaning U.S. battery supply chains away from China, which Manchin noted is currently responsible for 74% of the world’s cathode production, 92% of anode production, and 76% of lithium-ion battery cell production.
The auto industry is awaiting detailed guidance from the Treasury on what is considered a "foreign entity of concern" as they make investment decisions on producing batteries for their transition to electric vehicles.
The foreign entity of concern rules come into effect in 2024 for completed batteries and 2025 for critical minerals used to produce them.
A Treasury spokesperson said as the clean energy market shifts "we will continue to assess and respond to any national security concerns associated with both international and domestic supply chains."
The Chinese embassy in Washington did not immediately comment.
Manchin said the law does not allow for a "value added test" exception and it "would be unconscionable to reward bad actors through a loose or deliberately weak interpretation."
A key decision in the guidance is whether Ford Motor (F.N), opens new tab deal to license the technology of Chinese battery manufacturer CATL (300750.SZ), opens new tab for use in Ford-owned U.S. battery plants will meet the Treasury's standards to access the tax credits. The arrangement has raised concerns among U.S. lawmakers.
Ford put its planned $3.5 billion Michigan battery plant on hold in September and said it was awaiting "final language" from the Treasury on whether batteries made using Chinese technology will qualify for tax credits.
Manchin said Yellen should "use the strictest metrics possible to ensure there are no loopholes that will lead to the laundering of minerals and materials from China or other nations of concern."
