Tuesday, May 9, 2023 — The former Prime Minister of Pakistan, Imran Khan, was arrested after appearing in court in Islamabad to face charges in a separate corruption case. Lots of security forces in riot gear were seen dragging the high-profile politician into an armored vehicle.

Hours after Imran Khan's arrest, many protests erupted across the country, with the army being accused of orchestrating his detention. One protester has been reportedly shot dead in the city of Quetta after he was shot by an officer near a military checkpoint.

The former Prime Minister had traveled to Islamabad on the morning of Tuesday to request bail in two corruption cases, some of many involving corruption, sedition, and terrorism he is facing. Immediately he entered the court premises, agents from the National Accountability Bureau arrested Khan.

Source: The Guardian
Sunday, June 4, 2023 – An alleged Russian strike in a residential area of Ukraine city, Dnipro, has killed a little girl who is two years old and also left 22 people injured. The governor of the region said the girl's body was pulled out from the rubble of a house in the Pidhorodneska community. Five out of the injured people were children, with three boys in critical condition in the hospital, Serhiy Lysak confirmed. 

The President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, has blamed Russia for the attack. However, no comment has been made about Kremlin concerning the attack. The President described the attack in Dnipro as a deliberate attack, even though Russia had previously denied targeting residential area

Also, explosions were heard in Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv, where the air defense system was again used.

Source: BBC
Monday, May 22, 2023 – The biggest oil refinery ever built in Africa opened in Nigeria, which plans to alleviate chronic fuel shortage. Nigeria, which is a major oil producer, has most of it sent abroad while having to import refined fuel used in vehicles and elsewhere.

Although the plant is not operational, it can produce 650,000 barrels of petroleum products daily. The refinery also includes a power station, deep seaport, and fertilizer plant. Building the plant was $19bn (£15.2bn). 

During the launch on Monday, the owner of the refinery, Mr. Aliko Dangote, who is the richest man in Africa, said the first goal of the refinery is to ramp up production of the various products to ensure that they can satisfy the need of the country this year.

Source: BBC 
With the federal government incentivizing the expansion of domestic electric-vehicle battery manufacturing, a new Cornell study examines the long-term energy and sustainability prospects of U.S. production, and highlights policy approaches for building a more resilient battery supply chain.

EV batteries are mostly manufactured overseas, and many policy makers want to move more production to the U.S. – a practice known as reshoring – to reduce dependence on foreign imports and unpredictable global supply chains. But reshoring will also have an effect on the country’s renewable energy transition and climate goals.

A study published on June 14 in Science Advances provides one of the most comprehensive energy and environmental analyses of reshoring lithium-ion EV batteries, considering the whole life cycle, including raw material acquisition, component production, manufacturing, distribution and transportation.

The study found that reshoring could reduce the overall carbon footprint of U.S. EV batteries and the energy needed to produce them, but the benefits can swing dramatically based on factors such as advances in technology, supply chain restructuring, and electric vehicle adoption.

“For example, utilizing recycled aluminum and nickel can reduce the carbon footprint by up to 26% for the pre-pandemic U.S. electric vehicle fleet,” said the study’s co-lead author, Fengqi You, the Roxanne E. and Michael Zak Professor of Energy Systems Engineering and a senior faculty fellow at the Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability. “This study highlights the importance of data science and sustainability analytics in informing future policy on energy, climate, manufacturing and the environment.”

The study also examined energy and sustainability prospects of an ally-shoring strategy, in which production capacities for refined metals and battery components are reallocated to Japan, South Korean and European Union countries.

Findings from the study include:

Increasing the shares of onshoring and ally production in the future U.S. EV battery supply chain could reduce the carbon footprint by up to 27% compared to the current supply chain configuration.
Increasing the shares of renewable energy in the power grid and reducing the reliance on hard coal and lignite-fired electricity would enhance the environmental sustainability of EV batteries.
A strategic integration of battery technology advancement and supply chain restructuring can result in a 54% improvement in climate change mitigation benefits.
While reshoring could reduce ecotoxicity and fine particulate matter formation by over 30% from secondary nickel supply, there is a decrease in environmental performances in ozone formation, ozone depletion and ionizing radiation due to increasing overseas transportation distance for materials.
“The type of advanced modeling and systems analysis offered by this study is essential for considering the environmental tradeoffs in how lithium-ion batteries are built,” said study co-author Apoorv Lal, a graduate student in You’s Process-Energy-Environmental Systems Engineering Lab, “and for securing a resilient midstream and downstream value chain for the U.S. amidst uncertain markets and evolving battery technologies.”