Friday, January 6, 2023 – Not less than 24 people were killed when the Mexican authorities tried to apprehend the son of Mexican drug kingpin “El Chapo.” Ovidio Guzman-Lopez, son of El Chapo and 32 years old and the leader of the father’s former cartel, was flown to Mexico City after being captured in Culiacan.

10 military officers and 19 suspects were killed during his arrest. The Minister for Défense, Luis Cresencio Sandoval, said 35 other military officers we wounded and 21 suspects we also arrested.

Mr. Sandoval said the United States was part of the six-month surveillance operation to capture Mr. Guzman-Lopez. The operation sparked a lot of violence from the cartel members, from burning vehicles to hitting at least 2 planes with gunfire.

A Mexico federal Judge, however, blocked any extradition process against him.

Source: BBC 
Friday, February 24, 2023 — China has urged the G20 nations to conduct a fair, objective, and in-depth analysis of the possible causes of the global debt issues and to tackle the problem comprehensively and effectively. Minister for finance in China, Liu Kun, joined a video meeting of the bloc’s finance ministers and central bank chiefs in Bengaluru and India.

According to the statement released by the Chinese finance ministry, Liu said that to resolve debt issues, international financial institutions and commercial creditors should go along with the principle of joint actions.

Officials from the IMF, the World Bank, and G7 nations will convene on Saturday for the first face-to-face discussions of the new IMF Global Sovereign Debt Roundtable.

Officials from Zambia and Ghana await assurance from China regarding debt-restructuring support.

Source: Reuters 
Monday, March 20, 2023 — The President of China, Xi Jinping, met with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Kremlin on Monday. This is the first visit of the Chinese leader to Russia since the beginning of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine last year.

In the early hours of their meeting, both countries talked about the war in Ukraine, and it is expected to be the key point of discussion throughout Xi’s visit. Russian state news agency confirmed that the meeting between the two presidents lasted up to 4 and a half hours, with a more formal meeting expected to follow on Tuesday.

Antony Blinken, a top United States diplomat, said President Xi’s trip to Russia days after the ICC issued an arrest warrant for President Putin suggests that China does not feel any responsibility to hold Kremlin responsible for the war crime committed in Ukraine.

Source: CNN 
Chinese manufacturers and tech companies are playing an increasing role as the U.S. supply chain for electric vehicles and batteries grows to satisfy demand.

Why it matters: More supply chain investments mean more EVs, which advocates say are critical to making transportation sustainable.

But domestic manufacturing proponents and some Republican lawmakers have expressed wariness about Chinese companies seizing too much control of a vital and growing market.
State of play: Chinese companies are expanding their presence in several areas of the U.S. EV space:

Ford on Monday announced it's building a $3.5 billion plant in Michigan that will build batteries using technology from China's Contemporary Amperex Technology Co., Limited (CATL).
Foxconn, which makes the iPhone in China for Apple, is now building electric pickups in Ohio after forming a joint venture last year with Lordstown Motors.
China EV maker BYD is considering building a battery plant in the U.S., Bloomberg reported.
The intrigue: Virginia Gov. Glenn Youngkin, a Republican, last month withdrew his state's bid for Ford’s venture with CATL, describing the planned project as a "Trojan horse" for the Communist Party of China, Axios' Joann Muller writes.

Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, a Democrat, applauded the "generational investment by an American icon [that] will uplift local families, small businesses, and the entire community and help our state continue leading the future of mobility and electrification."
Be smart: For vehicles to qualify for EV tax credits under the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), they need to be assembled with components made in the U.S. — a stiff standard that many vehicles can't currently meet.

Because Ford will own 100% of the new Michigan factory, it hopes to take advantage of lucrative tax credits.
"As IRA implementation continues, scrutiny of Chinese involvement in facilities receiving subsidies will only increase, driven by a mix of sincere and cynical China concerns from both parties," Evercore ISI analyst Tobin Marcus writes.
What we're watching: Whether a Chinese automaker goes beyond manufacturing in the U.S., becoming the first to sell vehicles here.

Chinese automotive executives have been claiming for years that they'll bring their cars to the U.S., but it hasn't happened yet.