Monday, August 7, 2023 – The Ukrainian Security Service (SBU) confirmed the arrest of an alleged Russian informant connected to a plot to assassinate the president of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky. According to the SBU, the woman is from the southern Ukrainian region of Mykolaiv. However, her name has not been revealed.

According to the SBU, The suspect has been gathering information concerning President Zelensky’s planned visit to Mykolaiv at the end of July to plan a Russian strike to kill the President. SBU, however, managed to get information about the suspect's activities and adopted security measures to foil the plot.

After an investigation, the suspect was found to be a resident of Ochakov in the Mykolaiv region and a former saleswoman in a military store. SBU, you said they caught the woman as she was trying to pass information to the invaders.

Source: CNN 
Thursday, July 20, 2023 – More than 110 people were injured after the north-eastern Italian region of Veneto was hit by severe weather, including giant hailstones. These events prompted the governor, Luca Zaia, to announce a regional emergency for the affected areas.

Although the heatwave peak passed on Wednesday, Italy remained in the grip of its third heatwave of the summer. According to data, temperatures in Sicily and Sardinia were anticipated to reach around 48 degrees Celsius.

The public protection authority in Rome had set up 28 "heat help points" across the city to avoid citizens and tourists from becoming ill due to the severe temperatures. Some hospitals reported a 20%-25% rise in people appearing at emergency rooms with dehydration or other heat-related disorders.

Farm laborers in Marsica, Abruzzo, worked from 4 a.m. to 11 a.m. to avoid the warmest hours, while factory workers around the country threatened to go on strike due to the high heat.

Source: The Guardian
Thursday, July 26, 2023 – Military personnel in Niger has announced that they have removed the President, Mohamed Bazoum, from power. The announcement came after armed troops blocked the presidential palace in Niamey, the capital of Niger. A few hours after detaining the president, a group of soldiers appeared on the country’s national television.

Colonel Amadou Abdramane, while reading a statement, said: “The defense and security forces had decided to put an end to the regime that people know due to the deteriorating security situation and bad governance". A National curfew was announced following the closure of the country's borders. All institutions of the republic have also been suspended.

The United States Secretary of State, Anthony Blinken, said he had spoken to President Bazoum earlier and clarified that the U.S. supports him as the democratically elected president. He then said the U.S. called for his immediate release.

Source: The Guardian
The chip shortage has ailed the auto industry since early in COVID, but a bigger issue is surfacing.
Automakers are starting to see the impacts of the electric vehicle battery crunch.
EV battery constraints and more are affecting the bottom lines of companies like Ford.

It's official: The battery crunch is the new chip shortage.

The chip shortage is still impacting vehicle supply, experts say, but automakers are now having to reckon with the battery supply chains as an even bigger headwind. Challenges surrounding electric vehicle production and the battery supply chain are finally materializing for legacy automakers and impacting their bottom lines.

Ford, GM, and Porsche pointed to delays, constraints, and expenses related to EVs and their batteries in recent financial results. These issues are not only causing them to fall short of their ambitious electrification targets but also impacting their balance sheets. 

Ford CEO Jim Farley said during the company's last earnings call that with regard to EVs, "pricing pressure has dramatically increased in the past 60 days." Much of that stems from an EV price war brought on by Tesla and Elon Musk. One of the biggest reasons it's more difficult for a company like Ford to lower its EVs prices is because it hasn't yet hit production scale in the same way Tesla has, especially when it comes to batteries, which would bring down overall costs. 

Ford expects to lose $4.5 billion on EVs this year.

Meanwhile, GM CEO Mary Barra told investors that while the company is targeting building 100,000 EVs in the second half of 2023, one of its equipment suppliers is experiencing delivery issues that is constraining GM's battery module assembly.

"We have experienced unexpected delays in the ramp," Barra said — an indicator that bottlenecks are to come from the battery side of the business. Battery shortages were blamed for GM halting production at a Canadian manufacturing plant earlier this month, according to Electrek.   

And at Porsche, hitting this year's target will require a better battery situation, executives said.
"There is no week where we have no supply chain issue," CEO Oliver Blume told media, per a Reuters report. 

Battery supply issues have long been looming, but as auto companies across the globe race to snatch up EV market share and spend billions to electrify, the challenges have manifested quickly. Before, it wasn't as obvious just exactly where hold-ups would come into play. 

Now, combined with sourcing requirements like those in the Inflation Reduction Act, and a mash dash for raw materials, processing power, and manufacturing capability has automakers scrambling. 

Competition is fierce, and while auto companies are making agreements and signing onto partnerships to reduce the blow from the supply chain, the road to EVs is likely to remain rocky.
