Friday, November 24, 2023 – After a long intense battle between Israel and Hamas, the first group of hostages were released from Gaza on Friday. Hamas released 24 hostages, 13 of them being Israelis, 10 Thais, and a Philippine national. The hostage release is part of the deal that facilitated a ceasefire and the release of Palestinians imprisoned in Israel.

Israel also released a total of 39 Palestinian prisoners on Friday evening. Those that were released included 24 women, including some who were convicted of attempted murder, and 15 teenagers who were jailed for offenses such as throwing stones.

According to the agreement, Hamas is expected to release not less than 50, out of the 240 Israeli hostages. Israel on the other hand is expected to release at least 150 Palestinian prisoners and allow close to 300 trucks of humanitarian aid into Gaza.

Source: The Guardian 
Sunday, November 26, 2023 – During a meeting with the Prime Minister of Vietnam, Pham Minh Chinh, the commerce minister of China, Wang Wentao promised to deepen the bilateral trade ties between China and Vietnam. Mr. Wang said though the relations with Vietnam had already achieved fruitful results, it would now include strategic areas like digital economy, green development, and cross-border e-commerce.

Both China and the United States have been trying to get influence among Southeast Asian nations, which includes Vietnam, which stepped up its ties with Washington in September to a comprehensive strategic partnership.

The Vice Foreign Minister of China, Sun Weidong held a talk with the Deputy Foreign Minister of Vietnam, Nguyen Minh Vu concerning bilateral ties, land border, and maritime issues. Though Chinese President Xi Jinping was expected to travel to Hanoi in late October or early November, it was postponed till December.

Source: Reuters
Wednesday, November 8, 2023 – The executive body of the European Union said on Wednesday that detailed negotiations about Ukraine joining the European Union should begin next year, giving a major boost to the country’s ambition. In a report, the Commission said that accession talks should finally start, close to 18 months since the bloc accepted Ukraine as a candidate state.

Ursula von der Leyen, the President of the European Commission while speaking on Wednesday said that “today is a historic day, because the Commission recommends that the Council opens accession negotiation with Ukraine and with Moldova.

The President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, welcomed the Commission’s announcement and said that with the announcement, the history of Ukraine and the whole of Europe has taken the right step. While the decision to begin negotiations with Ukraine is a pivotal step, talks will not begin until certain conditions have been met.

Source: CNN
SHANGHAI, Oct 27 (Reuters) - Beijing's move to restrict graphite exports will have a disproportionate impact on foreign makers of electric vehicle battery components who have not yet shifted to using as much synthetic material as Chinese counterparts, industry insiders and experts said.
China's latest limit on critical mineral exports, which Beijing said is not targeted at a specific sector, has fuelled uncertainty in the global EV supply chain since it was announced last Friday.
Some Chinese manufacturers, including those with operations overseas, said they expect limited impact from the rules as most EV batteries they make use a grade of synthetic material that is unaffected by the curbs.
China dominates the global EV battery supply chain including production of graphite - the single largest component. Graphite companies in the country process both the natural material mined domestically and overseas, as well as synthetic forms.
Japan, South Korea and the United States are top buyers of both natural and synthetic Chinese graphite, and analysts warned the new measures could slow or reduce graphite supplies needed by companies there to produce anodes - the negative electrodes of EV batteries.
Under the new rules, China will require export permits starting Dec. 1 for high-end synthetic graphite, as well as key forms of natural graphite.
Several executives in China and globally at companies that use graphite said they were still seeking further clarity on the new measures.
An employee at Qingdao Haida, a major Chinese graphite processor, who declined to be named as they was not authorised to speak on behalf of the company, told Reuters that the company's products include spherical graphite, which is used in lithium ion battery anodes and is covered by the new rules and is exported to South Korea and Japan.
"We haven't got any instructions from MOFCOM (China's Ministry of Commerce) on how to apply for export permits but it will definitely make the exporting process more inconvenient," the person said.
Haida did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
China's recent move to require export permits for gallium and germanium products has choked off international shipments of the chipmaking metals.
The commerce ministry did not respond to further queries from Reuters. A source familiar with the Chinese government's thinking noted that graphite was also used in military equipment.
CHINA'S SYNTHETIC PUSH
But Chinese companies, which have been building overseas plants, said the restrictions will have little effect on their operations abroad. The Chinese firms use synthetic graphite, but not the high grade form covered under the new measures, with a density of 1.73 grams per cubic centimetre and above.
China produces large quantities of synthetic graphite, which enables lower battery charge times.
While adoption among foreign manufacturers is growing, their shift from natural to synthetic graphite has been slower, in part because it is more polluting to produce petroleum-based synthetic graphite and natural graphite anodes also tend to be cheaper, which makes them vulnerable to the Chinese curbs.
Volkswagen-backed Chinese firm Gotion High Tech (002074.SZ), opens new tab, which produces batteries in Germany and plans a U.S. plant, said graphite used in its batteries has a density lower than 1.7 grams per cubic centimetre, which would make it unaffected by the restrictions.
Similarly, BTR New Material Technology (835185.BJE), opens new tab, the world's largest anode producer, told Shanghai government-run media outlet The Paper that the rule's impact on it would be limited, as its products have a density of between 1.5 and 1.7 gram per cubic centimetre for EV batteries.
Ningbo Shanshan (600884.SS), opens new tab, another leading Chinese anode maker, told The Paper that the restrictions would have no impact on its exports of artificial graphite products.
BTR and Shanshan, which have announced plans to build factories in Indonesia and Finland, respectively, did not immediately respond to requests for comment from Reuters.
NATURAL GRAPHITE HIT
Global companies using natural graphite include Hitachi Chemical, part of Japan's Resonac Holdings Corp (4004.T), opens new tab, South Korea's POSCO Future M (003670.KS), opens new tab and Japan's Mitsubishi Chemical, which produces natural graphite at two plants in China, according to research firm CRU Group.
A Resonac spokesperson said it did not see any impact for now and was watching the situation. He declined to comment on details of graphite procurement, but said there were various routes, depending on individual products.
Mitsubishi Chemical did not respond to a request for comment, and POSCO declined to comment.
Australia-based Tesla supplier Syrah Resources, which mines graphite in Mozambique and is building a plant to produce anodes in the U.S. state of Louisiana, said on Thursday it expects buyers outside of China to step up purchases of natural graphite ahead of the stricter controls taking effect.
India's Epsilon Advanced Materials (EAM) said this week it plans to open a $650 million plant to make battery materials and components including synthetic graphite in the U.S. state of North Carolina, and is in talks with suppliers about sourcing raw materials including natural graphite.
"We believe that limiting the amount of graphite exported from China - and likely the price increase for graphite that it will create - exacerbates the challenges (and) exemplifies the need to develop synthetic graphite for the U.S. locally," EAM CEO Sunit Kapur told Reuters.
