Sunday, February 19, 2023 — Joint Chiefs of South Korea confirm that North Korea has fired a ballistic missile toward the sea of its east coast, after Pyongyang warned of a strong response to the U.S.-South Korea military drills coming up. Japan’s coastguard confirms that North Korea launched what could be described as a ballistic missile.

North Korea has also confirmed that it launched a Hwasong-15 billion intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) just a day before a sudden launching drill for a mobile counterattack against hostile forces. South Korea Military said it detected the missile at 5:22 p.m.

South Korean defense ministry said the nuclear drills between the U.S. and South Korea, referred to as the deterrence strategy committee tabletop exercise, are scheduled for Wednesday at the Pentagon, which will involve senior defense policymakers from both parties.

Source: The Guardian 
Tuesday, January 31, 2023 — After sending tanks, the United States and the United Kingdom have crumbled Ukraine’s hope to get fighters from western Allies. Western Allies have concluded that they will no longer send F-16S and other western fighter jets to Ukraine.

The President of the United States, Joe Biden, replied “no” when asked whether or not he would send F-16s to Ukraine, but said he would remain in contact with Ukraine over their weapons request. A spokesperson at Downing Street also said sending the Jets to Ukraine isn’t practical as they are sophisticated equipment.

Ukraine began requesting the fighter jets manufactured by the United States defense company just after the U.S. and Germany agreed to send their own tanks to Ukraine for the first time. A spokesperson of Ukraine’s Airforce said Ukraine was seeking 200 fighter jets.

Source: The Guardian 
Monday, February 6, 2023 – Earthquakes hit the border of Turkiye and Syria, leading to widespread disorder and destruction in the two countries. A first Earthquake of magnitude 7.8 hit south of the East Anatolian fault, which separates the Anatolian plate and the Arabian plate, while a second quake of magnitude 7.5 hit north of the Faultline.

Since the incident, the death toll has continued to rise, with a count of over 12,000 people killed in the disaster. Sources report that the death toll could go much higher because the widespread destruction has led to the delay in emergency services reaching the affected area.

Authorities reported that up to 10 cities were affected in Turkiye. In Syria, Aleppo, which contained more than a million refugees fleeing from war, is one of the most affected cities in Syria.

Criticism has grown as families in some hard-hit communities have complained that the delayed pace of rescue attempts has left them digging for relatives alone.

International support has arrived from major countries as Leaders of both Syria and Turkiye have acknowledged that there was no way to prepare for an earthquake and that they cannot face the disaster alone.

Source: BBC
A wave of new planned electric vehicle battery plants will increase North America’s battery manufacturing capacity from 55 Gigawatt-hours per year (GWh/year) in 2021 to nearly 1,000 GWh/year by 2030. Most of the announced battery plant projects are scheduled to begin production between 2025 and 2030. By 2030, this production capacity will be capable of supporting the manufacture of roughly 10 to 13 million all-electric vehicles per year.

To optimize supply chain logistics, many battery plants will be co-located with automotive plants. Most of the planned projects in the United States are concentrated along a north-south band from Michigan to Alabama. Based on current plans, Kentucky, Tennessee, Georgia, and Michigan will see the highest growth in battery manufacturing capacity.

