Tuesday, August 8, 2023 – Italy has imposed a one-off windfall tax on local banks accused of reaping billions in extra profit from rising interest rates. The government approved the tax in a cabinet meeting and planned to use the proceeds to support mortgage holders and cut taxes when rising rates have put extra pressure on households.

The deputy prime minister of Italy, Matteo Salvini, said one only has to concentrate on banks’ profits in the first half of 2023 and the result of the European Central Bank’s rate hikes.  The government plans to tax 40% of this income stream, with the payment due by the middle of 2024.

An equity analyst such as Jefferies said that the decision by the Italian government to tax the net interest margin came unexpectedly. Jefferies estimates that up to €4.9 billion will be paid by Italy's 10 largest publicly listed banks.

Source: The Guardian
Wednesday, September 6, 2023 – At least 17 people died due to a blast that happened on a busy market street in the middle of the day. The President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky has condemned the attack, saying it was a deliberate attack on the peaceful city of Kostyantynivka.

The President, who has blamed Moscow for the attack said that the people that were killed in the blast did nothing wrong and warned that the death toll is likely to increase. Not less than 33 people are said to have been injured. Part of the establishments that were hit were a market, pharmacy, and shops.

The recent attack is one of the worst attacks on Ukrainian civilians since the spring. The Prosecutor-general of Ukraine has launched an investigation into the incident. His office confirmed that they are in pursuit of “criminal proceedings for violation of the laws and customs of war.” 

Source: BBC 
Monday, July 17, 2023 – Russia has confirmed that it will not renew the grain deal with Ukraine when it expires, as it accuses the West of not holding up its side of the bargain. However, Russia confirmed they would return to the agreement if their conditions were met. The President of Russia had complained that part of the deal which would allow the export of Russian food had not been honoured.

The agreement brokered by the United Nations and Turkey in July 2022 is set to expire at 5 p.m. ET on Monday.

Secretary of State of the United States, Antony Blinken, had accused Russia of Using the grain deal as a weapon. Dmytro Kuleba, Ukraine’s Foreign Minister, said, “Russia has been killing the grain initiative from one extension to another.” He also added that grain prices will increase worldwide with Russia ending the deal.

Source: CNN 
OTTAWA, Sept 21 (Reuters) - Canada and Japan on Thursday agreed to work more closely together to establishing sustainable and reliable global battery supply chains, the Canadian government said in a statement.
The two sides signed a memorandum of cooperation on the supply chains during a visit by Japanese Industry Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura, it said, but gave no details.
Canada, home to a large mining sector for minerals such as lithium, nickel and cobalt, wants to woo firms involved in all levels of the electric vehicle (EV) supply chain via a multibillion-dollar green technology.

"As worldwide demand shifts increasingly towards cleaner forms of energy, Canada's critical minerals resources and battery supply chains will play a vital role in how we get there," said Natural Resources Minister Jonathan Wilkinson.
Earlier this month a unit of South Korea's Solus Advanced Materials said it would will build a copper foil facility in the province of Quebec, producing technology for EV batteries.