Friday, July 7, 2023 – The National Security Adviser, Jake Sullivan, confirmed that the United States has decided to send cluster munitions to Ukraine as part of the new military aid package. The approval came after months of debates on whether or not to send the weapons, which were banned by 100 countries, including allies of the United States.

The transfer was approved by the President, Joe Biden. The munitions will be compatible with the 155 mm howitzers the United States provided. The 155 mm howitzers have assisted Ukraine over the last year to win back territories.

The undersecretary of defense for policy, Dr. Colin Kahl, said Ukraine assured the United States that they would not use the cluster munitions in urban areas that civilians populate.

Source: CNN 
Saturday, July 15, 2023 – South Korean President Yoon Suk-Yeol has promised to increase his country's humanitarian and non-lethal military assistance to Ukraine. This decision comes after a summit with the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskiy. Being the world’s ninth-largest arms exporter, South Korea has a longstanding policy not to supply lethal weapons to an active conflict zone.

President Yoon and his wife, Kim Keon-Hee, traveled to Ukraine after visiting Lithuania for a NATO summit. It is the first visit Yoon has made to Ukraine since Russia invaded the country almost 17 months ago. The humanitarian aid would also be increased to $150m in 2023.

During a joint briefing, President Zelenskiy appreciated the South Korean President's encouraging words and firm support. He also praised the transfer of vehicles and demining equipment to Ukraine.

Source: The Guardian 
Thursday, July 13, 2023 – Overflowing water from the Yamuna River has hit an all-time high in almost 45 years and has swamped Delhi's major highways. Authorities have evacuated thousands of people and rerouted traffic from major thoroughfares. This monsoon season in Northern India has seen record rainfall, with 88 deaths in Himachal Pradesh and catastrophic flooding in Punjab and Haryana.

Authorities stated Yamuna's water level increased to 208.46 meters from 207.49 meters the previous day, the highest in 45 years. The rising river has swamped various low-lying regions and roadways. Social media videos show cars and buses immersed in water on the streets.

Heavy trucks, except those delivering critical services, cannot enter Delhi. The Delhi administration has relocated nearly 16,000 people to relief tents beneath flyovers. Disaster assistance teams have been sent to numerous places, and rescue attempts in flooded areas are ongoing.

Source: BBC 
OSAKA, Japan, July 3 (Reuters) - The battery arm of Japan's Panasonic (6752.T), opens new tab will need to build four more factories to reach its target for a sharp boost in annual capacity of batteries for electric vehicles by 2031, its technology chief told Reuters.
The comments by Shoichiro Watanabe of Panasonic Energy are the Tesla (TSLA.O), opens new tab supplier's first clear indication of the number of additional factories it will need.
They could also fuel expectations of more investment by Japanese companies in the United States, after a deal the two countries struck in March key to widening access for Japanese manufacturers to U.S. electric-vehicle (EV) tax credits.

In May, Panasonic Energy said it aimed to boost annual EV capacity to 200 gigawatt hours (GWh) by early 2031, or about four times its capacity in March this year.
With a plant in Nevada, it is building a second in Kansas that is expected to take annual capacity to 80 GWh once operational, it has said.
"We will need to build around another four factories," Watanabe, the company's chief technology officer, said in an interview at its headquarters in Osaka on Friday.

But he stopped short of mentioning specific locations, time frames or investment sizes.
He signalled an openness to potential joint ventures for EV battery production, with automaker Mazda Motor (7261.T), opens new tab among others, citing the changing nature of such projects in which investment is no longer shouldered by battery makers alone.
"The style where battery producers will make all investments is disappearing," he said, adding that the 200 GWh capacity was the minimum necessary to be a major player.

NORTH AMERICA
Panasonic has said it is focusing on North America to build up capacity for production of 4680 batteries, the newest cells championed by Tesla's chief executive, Elon Musk.
Previously it said it planned to build at least two new factories for 4680 production in North America by 2030. Oklahoma has been seen as a possible site.
The four new plants will need to be supported by about a dozen factories of materials suppliers, Watanabe said, in a battery supply chain built around the principle of "local production for local consumption".

Joint procurement with major customers could also be considered, he said, taking into account tax breaks under the U.S. Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) and the need to limit the carbon footprint.
Given the size of investment required, makers of materials used in the batteries will also need to make decisions about their plans as early as possible, he said.
Panasonic will not rule out the possibility of a joint battery venture with Mazda as part of a supply partnership the companies are working out, Watanabe said.
Last month the firms said they would hold talks on setting up a partnership to supply Mazda with cylindrical lithium-ion batteries made in Japan and North America.
They aim to sign off on it this year, and expect to supply batteries after 2025.