Monday, September 11, 2023 – Due to hazard reduction burns over the weekend, Sydney awoke on Monday to a thick layer of smoke covering several areas of the city.

 The commissioner of the New South Wales Rural Fire Service said firefighters will continue performing hazard reduction burns over the upcoming few months as long as it's safe to do so, which might cause smoke to become trapped in the Sydney basin.

The Hazard reduction burn is a yearly practice by the firefighters especially in areas where there are properties. The fire service chiefs informed local news that the hazard burns were delayed this year and the process is still currently behind schedule.

Communities are being urged to bear with the process because; ultimately the smoke will clear over a period of few days and is far better than a bushfire disaster which could easily get out of control.

Source: The Guardian 
Friday, July 7, 2023 – The National Security Adviser, Jake Sullivan, confirmed that the United States has decided to send cluster munitions to Ukraine as part of the new military aid package. The approval came after months of debates on whether or not to send the weapons, which were banned by 100 countries, including allies of the United States.

The transfer was approved by the President, Joe Biden. The munitions will be compatible with the 155 mm howitzers the United States provided. The 155 mm howitzers have assisted Ukraine over the last year to win back territories.

The undersecretary of defense for policy, Dr. Colin Kahl, said Ukraine assured the United States that they would not use the cluster munitions in urban areas that civilians populate.

Source: CNN 
Friday, July 21, 2023 – The ambassador of Ukraine to London has been dismissed by the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskiy. His dismissal comes shortly after the Ukrainian president was asked to be more grateful for the military help that has been provided to them by the West.

According to a presidential order, Vadym Prystaiko’s dismissal was announced without any official reason, and he was also removed as Ukraine’s representative to the International Maritime Organization. Tension grew between Prystaiko and Zelenskiy when Prystaiko went on Sky News to question some of the behavior of the Ukrainian president. 

However, the tension with the West appears to have reduced, with some Ukrainians believing that enough is not being said about their troops dying on the battlefield every day. They added that the troops do not only fight to regain their sovereignty but also to defend Western values.

Source: The Guardian 
The US Department of Energy (DOE) issued a notice of intent to release a funding opportunity that would provide up to $37 million from Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL) funding to advance electric vehicle (EV) battery recycling, transportation, and design (DE-FOA-0003120).

As of July 2023, more than 3.9 million plug-in electric vehicles have been sold in the US. With the demand for EVs and stationary energy storage projected to increase the lithium battery market by as much as ten-fold by 2030, it is essential to invest in sustainable, reduced-cost recycling of lithium batteries in support of a secure, resilient, and circular domestic supply chain for critical materials.

The BIL will invest more than $7 billion in the batteries supply chain over the next five years; this includes sustainable sourcing and processing of the critical minerals used in battery production without new extraction or mining all the way through end-of-life battery collection and recycling.

The anticipated FOA and any related activities support BIL section 40208, Electric Drive Vehicle Battery Recycling and Second-Life Applications Program aimed at “research, development, and demonstration of:

second-life applications for electric drive vehicle batteries that have been used to power electric drive vehicles; and

technologies and processes for final recycling and disposal of the [electric drive vehicle batteries].

The high-capacity battery supply chain consists of five main steps:

raw material production,

materials processing,

battery material manufacturing and cell fabrication,

battery pack and end use product manufacturing, and

battery end-of-life and recycling.

The graphic below shows how these five steps relate to the BIL investments in the battery supply chain.

Bil

The anticipated FOA will focus on solutions that reduce the costs associated with battery recycling through technologies, processes, and product designs that facilitate the transport, disassembly, and preprocessing of end-of-life electric drive vehicle batteries.

Because the cost of transportation increases with distance traveled, technologies and processes that can interface at the point of collection, such as those performed at or with auto recyclers, dealerships, or automobile mechanic shops, are especially appealing. Also of interest are technologies or product designs that lower the costs and improve safety associated with the transport and disassembly of electric drive vehicle batteries including but not limited to:

technologies and processes, that improve the safety of end-of-life electric drive vehicle battery transportation by de-energizing, neutralizing, safely shredding, or otherwise deactivating the battery;

product designs that decrease the cost and improve the safety of end-of-life electric drive vehicle battery packaging; and

product designs that facilitate the dismantling and separation of end-of-life electric drive vehicle batteries and battery material.

The anticipated FOA will also address recycling of the electric drive vehicle battery accessory components. In pursuit of demonstrating the recycling of all battery components, the anticipated FOA will support technologies and processes for final recycling and disposal of battery accessory components, including casings and enclosures made from plastics and polymer composites.

It is anticipated that the FOA would provide approximately $35 million to fund research, development, and demonstration of transportation, dismantling, and preprocessing of end-oflife electric drive vehicle batteries for recycling at reduced cost, as well as $2 million for recycling of plastic and polymer electric drive vehicle battery accessory components.

EERE envisions awarding multiple financial assistance awards in the form of grants. The estimated period of performance for each award will be approximately 3-4 years.