Wednesday, March 22, 2023 — The International Monetary Fund (IMF) confirmed that a staff-level agreement had been reached with Ukraine on funding worth $15.6bn (£12.8bn). This will be the first loan of the organization to a country at war, and it is expected to be approved in the coming weeks.

An official of the IMF, Gavin Gray, said in a statement that “Russia’s invasion of Ukraine continues to have a devastating impact on the economy. Activity contracted by 30% in 2022, a large share of the capital stock has been destroyed and poverty level has increased.”

The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denys Shmyhal, said the funding would help Ukraine finance all critical expenditures and ensure macroeconomic stability. U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said an IMF program that is appropriately conditioned is critical to underpin Ukraine’s reform effort.

Source: BBC
Saturday, February 18, 2023 — After Kyiv's warning that its forces need more supplies, officials confirm that the European Union is exploring ways for its member countries to come together and buy munitions to assist Ukraine. The EU foreign ministers are expected to discuss getting a 155-millimeter artillery on Monday at a meeting in Brussels.

On Saturday, Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission President, said, “it is now time to really speed up the production and also to scale up the production of standardized products that Ukraine desperately needs.” She also said the purchase could be similar to the EU’s advance purchase of COVID vaccines.

Minister for Foreign Affairs in Ukraine, Dmytro Kuleba, described the need for ammunition as a critical issue, which he had discussed with the defense industry leaders at the Munich conference.

Source: Reuters 
Wednesday, January 25, 2023 – Deadly cold weather was recorded in several Asian countries, especially Japan, China, and the Korean peninsula, with experts saying the trend is the new norm.

The extreme temperatures have resulted in death across the areas affected, with reports that four of those who died in Japan were working to clear the snow that resulted from the cold temperatures. Hundreds of domestic flights in Japan were canceled because heavy snow and high winds made visibility difficult. Japan Airlines and All Nippon Airways canceled a total of 229 flights.

According to the North Korean State Media, cold storms going as low as -22°F (-30°C) swept through the Korean peninsula affecting the Pyongyang province majorly.

China's meteorological service has also predicted significant temperature reductions in several areas of the nation and issued a blue notice for a cold wave on Monday, the lowest level in a four-tier warning system. Mohe, China's northernmost city, temperatures dropped to -63.4°F (-53°C) on Sunday, the lowest temperature ever recorded.

Source: CNN 
COVINGTON, Ga., March 30, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Ascend Elements celebrated the grand opening of its first commercial-scale lithium-ion battery recycling facility this week. Located in Covington, Georgia, the $50 million Base 1 facility is North America's largest electric vehicle battery recycling facility. As demand for electric vehicles increases, lithium-ion battery recycling is becoming an increasingly important part of the EV battery materials supply chain.

The facility began partial operations in August 2022 and now has an annual capacity to process 30,000 metric tons of used lithium-ion batteries and manufacturing scrap – equal to 70,000 electric vehicle batteries per year.

"This facility is an important part of America's EV battery infrastructure, and this is just the start," said Ascend Elements CEO Mike O'Kronley. "As an industry, we need to continue building our closed-loop battery materials supply chain to make electric vehicle batteries cleaner and more sustainable."

Ascend Elements recovers up to 98% of the critical battery metals in used electric vehicle batteries and gigafactory manufacturing scrap. By recycling used lithium-ion batteries and scrap with its patented Hydro-to-Cathode™ process, Ascend Elements can reduce the carbon footprint of new electric vehicle battery cathode materials by up to 90%.

The ultra-clean and efficient facility is powered by renewable energy and features onsite wastewater recycling and treatment systems. The facility currently employs about 100 team members, and the company plans to increase headcount to 185 by 2024.

ABOUT ASCEND ELEMENTS 

Based in Westborough, Mass., Ascend Elements is the leading provider of sustainable, closed-loop battery material solutions. From EV battery recycling to commercial-scale productions of lithium-ion battery precursor (pCAM) and cathode active materials (CAM), Ascend Elements is revolutionizing the production of sustainable lithium-ion battery materials. Its Hydro-to-Cathode™ direct precursor synthesis technology produces new CAM from spent lithium-ion cells more efficiently than traditional methods, resulting in improved economics and lowered GHG emissions. With fewer batteries going to landfill and a cleaner manufacturing process, Ascend Elements is taking the lithium-ion battery industry to a higher level of sustainability. 

