Saturday, November 4, 2023 – The Palestinian Red Crescent has confirmed that an Israeli strike in an ambulance outside Gaza City’s biggest capital killed not less than 15 people. The attack was confirmed by Israel, saying that the ambulance was being used by Hamas operatives.

According to the statement from the Hamas government, it said the Israeli forces targeted “a convoy of ambulances which was transporting the wounded” from Al-Shifa Hospital Gaza City towards Rafah in the south. The Palestinian Red Crescent confirmed that the convoy was struck twice on its way to Al-Shifa Hospital. The first strike was 1km away and the second strike was outside the hospital gate.

The Ministry of Health in Egypt said that only 17 Palestinians who were wounded were evacuated for treatment in an Egyptian hospital, instead of the 28 that was originally planned. 

Source: BBC 
Wednesday, November 1, 2023 – Officials confirm that foreign nationals and injured Palestinians have been granted access to crossing from Gaza into Egypt. On Wednesday, 81 injured Palestinians that were injured severely were expected to enter Egypt, out of which dozens have already arrived and undergoing treatment in several hospitals across Egypt.

An official of Egypt confirmed that more than 360 foreign nationals have also left Gaza through the Rafah border crossing. He said dozens of them are making their way down to Cairo, where they will catch a plane to their respective countries.

The existence is due to a deal that was brokered by Qatar between Israel, Hamas, and Egypt, in coordination with the United States. The deal allows for the release of foreign nationals and critically injured civilians from Gaza. The agreement is separate from hostage negotiations.

Source: CNN 
Sunday, November 26, 2023 – During a meeting with the Prime Minister of Vietnam, Pham Minh Chinh, the commerce minister of China, Wang Wentao promised to deepen the bilateral trade ties between China and Vietnam. Mr. Wang said though the relations with Vietnam had already achieved fruitful results, it would now include strategic areas like digital economy, green development, and cross-border e-commerce.

Both China and the United States have been trying to get influence among Southeast Asian nations, which includes Vietnam, which stepped up its ties with Washington in September to a comprehensive strategic partnership.

The Vice Foreign Minister of China, Sun Weidong held a talk with the Deputy Foreign Minister of Vietnam, Nguyen Minh Vu concerning bilateral ties, land border, and maritime issues. Though Chinese President Xi Jinping was expected to travel to Hanoi in late October or early November, it was postponed till December.

Source: Reuters
•	该谅解备忘录概述了双方将联合开发先进的技术路线图，以及共同拓展未来电池价值链的机遇 

•	Stellantis集团旨在利用磷酸铁锂 (LFP) 电池推动其在欧洲市场的电动汽车生产，以支持Stellantis“Dare Forward 2030”战略规划中宏伟的电动化目标

•      Stellantis集团和宁德时代正探讨双方以对等模式成立一家合资企业的可能性

Stellantis集团和宁德时代新能源科技股份有限公司（下称“宁德时代”）今日宣布双方签署谅解备忘录，该备忘录约定：宁德时代将在欧洲当地向Stellantis集团供应磷酸铁锂（LFP）的电芯和模组，助力Stellantis在欧洲市场的电动汽车生产。为进一步支持Stellantis集团宏伟的电动化战略和目标，双方正探讨以对等模式成立一家合资企业的可能性。 


本谅解备忘录概述了宁德时代和Stellantis集团将在两个战略领域开展长期合作：制定大胆的技术路线图以支持Stellantis尖端纯电动汽车的发展；积极探索新的合作机会以进一步提升电池价值链。 

Stellantis集团全球CEO唐唯实 (Carlos Tavares) 表示：“与宁德时代就磷酸铁锂电池达成的谅解备忘录，是Stellantis保护欧洲中产阶级出行自由的长期战略的另一个组成部分。作为电池领域的行业领导者，宁德时代将与Stellantis旗下的众多标志性汽车品牌一起，为客户带来创新且易于使用和推广的电池技术，同时将帮助Stellantis集团实现其‘到2038年，达到净零碳排放’的目标。” 

宁德时代董事长兼总经理曾毓群表示：“我们非常高兴能将双方的合作伙伴关系提升到一个新的层次。借助Stellantis悠久的整车制造经验以及宁德时代先进的电池技术，我相信此次合作将是双方实现碳中和目标的决定性的一步。宁德时代将继续致力于为合作伙伴提供更具竞争力和更具可持续性发展的解决方案，为全球能源转型做出卓越贡献。” 

磷酸铁锂电池技术具有长寿命和高热稳定性的特点，有助于Stellantis为客户提供高品质、经久耐用且价格实惠的电动汽车，其范围涵盖B级到C级区间的轿车、跨界车和SUV。 

作为Stellantis集团“Dare Forward 2030”战略规划的一部分，集团的电动化目标为：到2030年，Stellantis在欧洲售出的所有乘用车均为纯电动汽车，在美国售出的乘用车及轻型卡车中有50%为纯电动汽车。与此同时，Stellantis计划到2038年成为一家净零碳排放企业，集团正创建一系列的合作伙伴关系，以确保在其电动化未来的实施过程中关键原材料的稳定和低碳供应。