Tuesday, January 31, 2023 — After sending tanks, the United States and the United Kingdom have crumbled Ukraine’s hope to get fighters from western Allies. Western Allies have concluded that they will no longer send F-16S and other western fighter jets to Ukraine.

The President of the United States, Joe Biden, replied “no” when asked whether or not he would send F-16s to Ukraine, but said he would remain in contact with Ukraine over their weapons request. A spokesperson at Downing Street also said sending the Jets to Ukraine isn’t practical as they are sophisticated equipment.

Ukraine began requesting the fighter jets manufactured by the United States defense company just after the U.S. and Germany agreed to send their own tanks to Ukraine for the first time. A spokesperson of Ukraine’s Airforce said Ukraine was seeking 200 fighter jets.

Source: The Guardian 
Thursday, March 16, 2023 – The President of Honduras, Xiomara Castro, said she had instructed her foreign minister to establish official relations with China. The relationship with China would see their ties with Taiwan end. With Honduras's switching from Taipei to Beijing, Taiwan has only diplomatic ties with 13 countries.

The move from Castro came weeks after she said her government announced it was negotiating with China to build a hydroelectric dam called Patuca II. Honduras' foreign minister, Eduardo Reina, said the country’s debt motivated the decision.

The foreign ministry of Taiwan expressed serious concern over the announcement of the President of Honduras and urged the country to reconsider its position.

The Foreign Ministry of China said the move was welcome and said it would develop friendly and cooperative relations with Honduras.

Source: The Guardian
Saturday, March 18, 2023 — Despite the ongoing conflict with Russia, Ukraine has signed a deal enabling them to export millions of tons of grains through the Black Sea. However, it is unclear how long the deal will last, as Ukraine is pushing for 120 days, while Russia wants 60 days.

Ukraine is one of the top producers of grain in the world. But has since been denied access to ports in the Black Sea as Russian warships blocked it since the beginning of the conflict. Hours before the deal expires, the President of Turkey, Recep Tayyip, announced the deal's extension on Saturday.

The Ambassador of Russia to the United Nations said on Friday that if the deal is to continue, the EU, U.S., and U.K. should remove any sanctions targeted at the agricultural sector in Russia within two months.

Source: BBC 


A total of US$92 billion has been invested in the US battery supply chain since President Joe Biden took office in January 2021, including recent projects announced by ICL and Rhyolite.

The figure includes government and private sector investments into the country’s battery supply chain, including recycling, materials separation and processing and component manufacturing. A total of 78 facilities have been announced, with 72 of them pictured in the above infographic.

One of those is Israel-based speciality minerals firm ICL’s LFP cathode material plant in St Louis, Missouri, previously reported on by Energy-Storage.news late last year, which ICL re-reported to Japanese and Korean markets this week.

The US$400 million project will be half-funded by a grant from the federal government through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law’s US$2.8 billion funding for battery projects, though this still needs to be finalised with the Department of Energy (DOE).

ICL said that by 2025, the share of LFP batteries is expected to reach 30% of all battery shipments by 2025, driven by increased adoption in the EV space as well as growth in energy storage and EV charging infrastructure, two sectors increasingly opting for LFP chemistry ahead of nickel-manganese-cobalt (NMC).

Research firm Wood Mackenzie Power & Renewables said in early 2022 that it expected that LFP will be the dominant battery chemistry over NMC by 2030, as previously reported by Energy-Storage.news.

Earlier in the month, the DOE’s Loan Programs Office, headed by industry veteran Jigar Shah, announced a conditional commitment to provide a US$700 million loan for an upstream lithium project. The Rholite Ridge project in Esmerelda County, Nevada, would process lithium carbonate which would provide the needed material for around 370,000 EVs a year.

The Inflation Reduction Act increased the LPO’s loan authority from US$60 billion to US$100 billion. The institution offers interest rates at US treasury levels and also has a longer tenor (repayment period) than a commercial bank, at 10-15 years versus just a few years for the latter.

As Energy-Storage.news has reported extensively, the Inflation Reduction Act and its precursor the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law have seen the investment climate around the US battery supply chain improve substantially.

Within the lithium-ion gigafactory space, this has been illustrated by the US’ planned capacity growing twice as fast as Europe’s since the Act was passed in August. Companies working in project site selection and development recently told us that companies have been pivoting interest westwards across the Atlantic in light of the incentives and support provided by the two schemes.

This has led Europe to announce plans for its own Inflation Reduction Act-style package of support measures to prevent a potential outflow of investment from its battery ecosystem, a concern recently raised by policymakers.

Energy-Storage.news’ publisher Solar Media will host the 5th Energy Storage Summit USA, 28-29 March 2023 in Austin, Texas. Featuring a packed programme of panels, presentations and fireside chats from industry leaders focusing on accelerating the market for energy storage across the country. 

