Monday, May 8, 2023 — Russia launched fresh waves of drones and missile strikes on Ukraine. Explosions were heard in Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv, overnight. The mayor confirmed that five people had been injured in what he described as the most significant kamikaze drone attack so far.

Ukrainian military confirmed that the latest attack by Russia was launched shortly after midnight and lasted for over four hours. Iranian-made Shahed kamikaze drones were seen all across the country. The Mayor of Kyiv, Vitaliy Klitschko, said close to 60 drones were launched by Russia, which makes it the most significant attack of such.

The military administration of Kyiv said emergency services responded after wreckages of drones fell on a runway at Khuliany international airport, which is one of the city’s two commercial airports. The President of Ukraine announced that May 9 would be celebrated as Europe Day.

Source: BBC 
Saturday, June 24, 2023 – It was confirmed that Troops from the Wagner mercenary have started leaving the city of Rostov-on-Don less than 24 hours after attempting a rebellion. The group’s chief said he had told his crew to return to Ukraine earlier to avoid bloodshed. Wagner Group is a private army of mercenaries who have been fighting alongside the regular Russian army in Ukraine.

The agreement to de-escalate the matter quickly came after the leader of Belarus; Alexander Lukashenko, held talks with Prigozhin. It was confirmed that the charges against Yevgeny Prigozhin will now be dropped, and he will move to Belarus. 

It was believed that Mr. Putin, the President of Russia, had been flown out of Moscow after flight tracking showed that two presidential planes had left the city on Saturday. However, his press secretary, Dmitry Peskov, said the president was still in the Kremlin.

Source: BBC
Friday, May 26, 2023 – Two people have been confirmed dead, and 23 others injured, after a missile strike hit a medical clinic in the eastern Ukrainian city of Dnipro, the region's governor said. 21 out of the 23 people that were injured are in the hospital, out of which three are in critical condition.

Recently, Russia has intensified its attack on Ukraine before the expected counteroffensive from Ukraine. The President of Ukraine, Mr. Zelensky, posted the video of the damaged clinic, where firefighters were seen at the scene. The firefighters were seen trying to cut down trees to get a mounted hose closer to the flame that had engulfed the building.

Authorities from Ukraine confirmed that they shot down 17 missiles and 31 drones launched by Russia overnight.

Source: BBC 
Battery maker Verkor will be supplying lithium batteries for the Alpine pure electric C-Crossover GT from its gigafactory in France from 2025

Since Renault made its investment in Verkor the two companies have worked together at the Verkor Innovation Centre (VIC) in Grenoble to approve the technical quality and commercial production process of the battery products Verkor will be supplying from the Dunkirk gigafactory.
