Tuesday, March 14, 2023 – A United States drone has crashed into the black sea following an encounter with a Russian fighter jet. The United States military confirmed that the fighter jet damaged the propeller of the American MQ-9 Reaper drone.

Commander of the U.S. Air Force Europe and Air Force Africa, Air Force Gen. James B. Hecker, said in a statement that the “MQ-9 aircraft was conducting routine operations in international airspace when it was intercepted and hit by a Russian aircraft, which resulted in a crash and complete loss of the MQ-9.”

Anatoly Antonov, the Ambassador of Russia to the United States after he was summoned to the State Department following the drone incident, said Russia does not want any confrontation with the United States.

The National Security Council communications coordinator said he is unsure whether or not the U.S. will recover the drone.

Source: CNN 
Saturday, March 25, 2023 — The ministry of foreign affairs in Honduras announced on Saturday that the country is formally ending its diplomatic ties with Taiwan. 

In the statement, the ministry said, “the government of the Republic of Honduras recognizes the existence of one China in the world and that the government of the People’s Republic of China represents China as a whole.” The ministry also added that it recognizes Taiwan as part of China and ends the diplomatic tie with Taiwan.

China will not maintain diplomatic ties with any country that recognizes Taiwan. They have spent much of the last 40 years trying to isolate the self-ruled island by taking away its diplomatic allies with offers of economic support. Under the leadership of Xi Jinping, China has mounted military, diplomatic, and economic pressure on Taiwan.

Source: CNN 
Wednesday, January 25, 2023 – Deadly cold weather was recorded in several Asian countries, especially Japan, China, and the Korean peninsula, with experts saying the trend is the new norm.

The extreme temperatures have resulted in death across the areas affected, with reports that four of those who died in Japan were working to clear the snow that resulted from the cold temperatures. Hundreds of domestic flights in Japan were canceled because heavy snow and high winds made visibility difficult. Japan Airlines and All Nippon Airways canceled a total of 229 flights.

According to the North Korean State Media, cold storms going as low as -22°F (-30°C) swept through the Korean peninsula affecting the Pyongyang province majorly.

China's meteorological service has also predicted significant temperature reductions in several areas of the nation and issued a blue notice for a cold wave on Monday, the lowest level in a four-tier warning system. Mohe, China's northernmost city, temperatures dropped to -63.4°F (-53°C) on Sunday, the lowest temperature ever recorded.

Source: CNN 
近日，宁德时代与电池储能项目开发公司HGP达成450MWh电池储能项目供货协议。双方还将建立长期合作伙伴关系，推动高达5GWh公用事业级和分布式储能项目的落地，以满足美国德克萨斯州对可再生能源能源日益增长的需求。



该450MWh电池储能项目将部署在德克萨斯州，预计2024年开始商业运营。宁德时代将为HGP提供户外预制舱系统EnerC，该产品具有高安全、长寿命和高集成的特点。EnerC兼具IP55防护等级和C5防腐等级，能够适应各种极端天气。得益于宁德时代的一体化液冷系统，项目的安全可靠运行将得到进一步保障。



此次合作充分发挥了宁德时代在先进电池技术和HGP在能源基础设施及储能资源开发方面的专业优势，将为市场提供更加便捷的解决方案，满足德克萨斯州和北美对清洁能源日益增长的需求，充分彰显双方对实现可持续发展的坚定承诺。



HGP是一家领先的能源基础设施和储能资源开发商，总部位于美国德克萨斯州达拉斯市，拥有数十年部署电网投资级储能资产的市场经验。s