Wednesday, November 8, 2023 – The executive body of the European Union said on Wednesday that detailed negotiations about Ukraine joining the European Union should begin next year, giving a major boost to the country’s ambition. In a report, the Commission said that accession talks should finally start, close to 18 months since the bloc accepted Ukraine as a candidate state.

Ursula von der Leyen, the President of the European Commission while speaking on Wednesday said that “today is a historic day, because the Commission recommends that the Council opens accession negotiation with Ukraine and with Moldova.

The President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, welcomed the Commission’s announcement and said that with the announcement, the history of Ukraine and the whole of Europe has taken the right step. While the decision to begin negotiations with Ukraine is a pivotal step, talks will not begin until certain conditions have been met.

Source: CNN
Friday, October 13, 2023 – Following the attack on Israel by Hamas militants, the Gaza Strip has seen a series of bombardments with bombs from Israel in a crisis that has grown to become a full-blown war. The Israeli Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu mentioned in an earlier report that “Gaza will be placed under a total blockade from food, water, fuel and electricity supply”.

As the crisis continues, Gaza is reportedly running out of fuel to power the generators that supply electricity to the only healthcare facilities left, and more than 50,000 pregnant women cannot access health services. The people of Gaza — about 1.1 million of them including women and children — have been instructed to move further south to avoid the Israeli bombardment against Hamas, and the blockade will not stop until Hamas releases the captured Israeli Hostages.

Since the beginning of the crisis over the past few days, 1,300 Israelis have died with Hamas holding about 150 hostages; retaliatory attacks from Israel have led to the death of 1,500 Palestinians, 338,000 people displaced, 19 healthcare facilities grounded 11 health workers killed, and 16 of them mortally wounded.

Source: BBC
Friday, December 1, 2023 – Israel launched an attack at targets across Gaza following the end of a seven-day ceasefire on Friday, after the negotiation of the release of more hostages failed overnight. More than 100 Palestinians were killed in the recent attack from Israel.

According to Israel’s military, they confirmed that by lunchtime, they had already attacked 200 targets from land, sea, and air across the north and south of the strip, which include a south city that Israel had ordered civilians to evacuate from, Khan Younis.

Israel confirmed that the reason the truce broke and could not be renewed was because Hamas had failed to release the remaining female hostages in Gaza. According to an Israeli Government spokesperson, Eylon Levy, he said that “Having chosen to hold on to Israeli women, Hamas will now take the mother of all thumping.”

Source: The Guardian 
Nissan will pump 1.12 billion pounds ($1.4 billion) into its British plant to build electric versions of two models, offering a boost to the country’s auto industry and a UK prime minister desperate to attract foreign investment.

The Japanese automaker said Friday that its plans for electric versions of the Qashqai and Juke, produced in Sunderland in northeast England, would require a total investment of up to £2 billion ($2.5 billion), including a third battery plant in Britain and infrastructure projects that its partners would help to finance.

The project is expected to receive UK government support.

Nissan has made its electric Leaf model in Sunderland for years and will continue to do so, with batteries supplied by a small plant at the site.

In 2021, the company announced a $1.4 billion investment to build a second, 9 gigawatt-hour (GWh) battery plant in Sunderland with Chinese partner Envision AESC.

Friday’s announcement comes just a few days before Prime Minister Rishi Sunak’s Global Investment Summit, when he will try to revive interest among overseas companies, which have cooled on Britain since the Brexit vote in 2016.

“Making the UK the best place to do business is at the heart of our economic plan,” Sunak said in a statement on Friday.

Nissan did not comment on the value of any subsidies or guarantees being provided by Britain.

“Government support is always important,” Nissan’s senior vice president for manufacturing and supply chain Alan Johnson told BBC radio. “Discussions are ongoing with the government, (and are) not concluded.”

Sunak will host Nissan President and chief executive Makoto Uchida at the summit next week.

Nissan’s investment will help support jobs for 7,000 workers in Sunderland and 30,000 people in the supply chain, and builds on a presence in Britain dating back to 1986.

For the Japanese company, Britain is a key hub. Its 2021 battery investment was a show of confidence when other foreign investors were avoiding the UK after Brexit led to years of uncertainty around the country’s trading relationships.

But Sunak, who became prime minister a year ago, is having some success turning that around.

The Nissan deal comes just months after India’s Tata Motors said it would invest £4 billion ($5 billion) in a UK electric vehicle battery plant to supply its Jaguar Land Rover factories.

Industry experts had described the Tata battery plant as good progress, but argue Britain needs much more EV battery production capacity to maintain a viable, growing auto industry.

Nissan plans to offer only fully electric cars in Europe by 2030. It said it would announce the names of the new EV models and timings for production launches at a later date.

The automaker’s latest UK investment comes despite Sunak’s decision in September to delay by five years a ban on sales of new petrol cars.