Tuesday, January 24, 2023 – Recent reports claim that German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has decided to deliver Leopard 2 tanks to Ukraine to help them in their war against Russia. There is set to be a debate about the issue in the German parliament on Wednesday morning.

Germany came to a conclusion to send the tanks to Ukraine just after the United States revealed that the administration of Biden is wrapping up plans to send tanks made in the United States to Ukraine.

Ukraine will be able to defend itself better against Russia's offensive with the Leopard 2 tanks that are been sent to them by Germany. 

Germany has resisted much pressure to ship some of the tanks to Ukraine. Germany’s Minister for defense, Boris Pistorius on several times, called for more time, insisting that the move would come with pros and cons for Berlin.

Source: CNN 
Wednesday, January 25, 2023 – Deadly cold weather was recorded in several Asian countries, especially Japan, China, and the Korean peninsula, with experts saying the trend is the new norm.

The extreme temperatures have resulted in death across the areas affected, with reports that four of those who died in Japan were working to clear the snow that resulted from the cold temperatures. Hundreds of domestic flights in Japan were canceled because heavy snow and high winds made visibility difficult. Japan Airlines and All Nippon Airways canceled a total of 229 flights.

According to the North Korean State Media, cold storms going as low as -22°F (-30°C) swept through the Korean peninsula affecting the Pyongyang province majorly.

China's meteorological service has also predicted significant temperature reductions in several areas of the nation and issued a blue notice for a cold wave on Monday, the lowest level in a four-tier warning system. Mohe, China's northernmost city, temperatures dropped to -63.4°F (-53°C) on Sunday, the lowest temperature ever recorded.

Source: CNN 
Tuesday, February 28, 2023 — European Union and the United Kingdom have agreed to new trade rules in Northern Ireland to tackle the problem that has fueled post-Brexit in Europe and Northern Ireland.

While speaking at a press conference in Windsor, U.K. Prime Minister Rishi Sunak said that the new deal, named” Windsor Framework,” will not only deliver smooth-flowing trade within the United Kingdom, it will also protect Northern Ireland’s place in the U.K. and safeguard the sovereignty of Northern Ireland. 

The President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, acknowledged that the relationship between the U.K. and EU has been tense since Brexit and said new solutions were required for the two parties to utilize their partnership. The leaders showed three essential areas that would be improved in the protocol due to the new deal.

Source: CNN 
The U.S. moved this week to counter China’s control over production of electric vehicle batteries at a time of widespread concerns over global shortages of key minerals and labor abuses in African mines.

In a memorandum of understanding Wednesday, the State Department pledged to help build an EV battery supply chain in Congo and Zambia. The department and other U.S. agencies will offer technical assistance to the two countries, cooperate on feasibility studies and explore opportunities in the sector for U.S. companies, according to the MOU.

The goal is to shift Congo and Zambia from being only sites of extraction for minerals to processing, manufacturing and assembling batteries, according to the text (Energywire, Nov. 4, 2022).

“This is the future, and it is happening in [Congo] and in Zambia,” said Secretary of State Antony Blinken at the MOU’s signing on Dec. 13. The full text was not made public by the State Department until Wednesday.

The deal takes place in a region where the mining sector is of unrivaled importance for electric vehicles.

Congo and Zambia are major global sources of cobalt and copper, key ingredients in lithium-ion batteries. Once extracted, those minerals are often exported to China, where they are subsequently processed and incorporated into batteries.

China made about 75 percent of the world’s lithium-ion batteries in 2021, compared with 7 percent for the U.S., according to the International Energy Agency.

That has gained the attention of Congress, considering the Biden administration’s aim of ramping up electric car sales. By 2030, the administration wants as much as half of new car sales in the U.S. to be electric. Republicans have criticized that goal in part on the grounds that it would play into the hands of China and other geopolitical foes.

While the MOU did not mention China, helping Congo and Zambia scale up their own battery industries would create a new source of competition for the Asian country.

Kwasi Ampofo, head of metals and mining at BloombergNEF, noted that China controls about 80 percent of the battery “midstream,” referring to the conversion of minerals into usable battery parts.

“This MOU if implemented successfully will help move the needle for the U.S.,” he wrote in an email.

Elsewhere, the Biden administration has sought to improve U.S. access to non-Chinese sources of minerals used in EV batteries, solar panels and wind turbines. Under a flagship initiative announced last year, known as the Mineral Security Partnership, the administration has sought to fund overseas mining projects (Greenwire, Sept. 23, 2022).

The moves come as analysts predict a looming supply shortage of minerals that could slow the U.S. transition to electric cars and other low-carbon technologies. Last year, for instance, Wood Mackenzie released a report citing likely copper shortages for electric carmakers.

‘Unconscionable’ or advantageous?
The deal also raises questions about how new U.S. influence in the region might affect alleged labor abuses in the Congolese cobalt sector, which provides 70 percent of the world’s supply. Last year, the Labor Department added lithium-ion batteries to its list of goods made with child labor or forced labor due to reports of abuses in the country’s cobalt mines (Energywire, Oct. 5, 2022).

The Labor Department drew particular attention to child labor in Chinese-owned cobalt mines, which include some of the largest in Congo, and noted reports of adults being trafficked to work in small-scale mines in one part of the country.

Zambia also appeared on the Labor Department list for the presence of child labor in several non-energy-related industries. Human rights researchers have in past years denounced abusive conditions in Chinese-run copper mines.

The Biden administration’s initial December announcement of the battery partnership drew fire from Republican proponents of domestic mining.

“It’s unconscionable that Joe Biden and this activist administration chooses child slave labor over the American miner and the American worker,” Rep. Pete Stauber of Minnesota said in a Dec. 16 appearance on Fox News. Stauber, who is incoming chair of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources, has introduced bills that would shorten environmental reviews for critical mineral production within the U.S. (E&E Daily, Jan. 10).

By contrast, Ampofo said he thought the U.S.’s battery collaboration with Congo and Zambia could help combat labor abuses.

“The advantage of such partnerships is that it enforces global standard in regions where local standards are weak. An example is the Dodd-Frank Act which helped shine a spotlight on conflict minerals. This partnership could also help to strengthen and enforce standards and regulations that will address child labor,” he wrote in an email.

One type of project mentioned in the agreement concerns plants that refine minerals into precursor materials for batteries. Those plants are an example of the type of “industrialized economic growth” that the three countries want to support in Congo and Zambia, it said.

Two years ago, Ampofo led an analysis of that idea at the behest of the United Nations and several international financial institutions.

Building plants that produce battery cathode materials in Congo would cost one-third of what it would in China, he and his co-authors at BNEF concluded.

The plants could sell at competitive prices and leave a smaller emissions footprint than Chinese cathode material plants by drawing their power from low-carbon hydroelectric generators, the research said.

The State Department did not respond to a request for comment in time for publication.