Wednesday, December 27, 2023 – Eight North Korean citizens have been sanctioned by South Korea because they are linked to nuclear and missile development through arms trade, cyberattacks other illicit activities. The sanctions came days after an intercontinental ballistic missile was fired by North Korea. This action was strongly condemned by South Korea and the United States because it violates the resolution of the Security Council of the United Nations.

Part of the people that were blacklisted include Ri Chang Ho, head of the Reconnaissance General Bureau which is involved in overseas hacking operations, and Yun Chol who assisted in supplying nuclear materials while working with the North Korean Embassy in China.

Since October 2022, a total of 83 individuals and 53 entities related to North Korea’s weapons program have been blacklisted by South Korea.

Source: Reuters
Thursday, October 5, 2023 – According to the EU climate service, September saw the highest global temperatures ever measuring 1.75C, far surpassing the previous record. The temperature this month was 0.5C hotter than the previous record set in 2020 and 0.93C warmer than the average September temperature between 1991 and 2020.

Experts believe that the heat is being caused by both the El Niño weather event and the ongoing emissions of warming gases. A few scientists expressed their surprise at the magnitude of the rise; and that the magnitude of the warming places new pressure on politicians to act as they prepare for the COP28 climate summit at the end of November.

The September result does not violate the 2015 Paris Accord to keep temperatures below 1.5 degrees Celsius since the Paris target relates to decades, not months. However, it is undeniably a concerning trend. Scientists anticipate that this year will remain below the 1.5C limit, but 2023 is "on track" to be the warmest on record.

Source: BBC 
Monday, December 4, 2023 – At least 47 people have been confirmed dead due to a severe flooding and landslide in northern Tanzania. 80 people were also wounded in the incident. The President of the country, Samia Hassan has deployed national security forces to help with rescue efforts. 

A rainfall that was higher than usual in Tanzania last month resulted in the deaths and destruction of property in the capital Dar es Salaam and the areas of Kigoma, Kagera, Geita, and Unguja. Crops have been washed away in some parts of the country, which affects the livelihood of the people.

According to a report, flooding is said to be the greatest natural disaster in Tanzania, which affects tens of thousands of people each year. In 2023, east Africa was badly hit by floods and landslides, partly caused by the El Nino weather phenomenon.

Source: BBC
WASHINGTON, Nov 13 (Reuters) - Democratic Senator Joe Manchin urged the U.S. Treasury on Monday to adopt the "strictest possible standards" to prevent Chinese-produced minerals or Chinese battery companies from winning electric vehicle tax credits.
Manchin, who chairs the Senate Energy Committee, raised concerns in a letter to Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen about reports Chinese battery companies are actively pursuing business opportunities to take advantage of the credits, adding U.S. tax credits "cannot be allowed to be hijacked by adversaries engaging in mineral laundering."
In 2022, Congress passed the Inflation Reduction Act barring $7,500 in future consumer EV tax credits if any battery components are manufactured or assembled by a "foreign entity of concern."
The rules were aimed at weaning U.S. battery supply chains away from China, which Manchin noted is currently responsible for 74% of the world’s cathode production, 92% of anode production, and 76% of lithium-ion battery cell production.
The auto industry is awaiting detailed guidance from the Treasury on what is considered a "foreign entity of concern" as they make investment decisions on producing batteries for their transition to electric vehicles.
The foreign entity of concern rules come into effect in 2024 for completed batteries and 2025 for critical minerals used to produce them.
A Treasury spokesperson said as the clean energy market shifts "we will continue to assess and respond to any national security concerns associated with both international and domestic supply chains."
The Chinese embassy in Washington did not immediately comment.
Manchin said the law does not allow for a "value added test" exception and it "would be unconscionable to reward bad actors through a loose or deliberately weak interpretation."
A key decision in the guidance is whether Ford Motor (F.N), opens new tab deal to license the technology of Chinese battery manufacturer CATL (300750.SZ), opens new tab for use in Ford-owned U.S. battery plants will meet the Treasury's standards to access the tax credits. The arrangement has raised concerns among U.S. lawmakers.
Ford put its planned $3.5 billion Michigan battery plant on hold in September and said it was awaiting "final language" from the Treasury on whether batteries made using Chinese technology will qualify for tax credits.
Manchin said Yellen should "use the strictest metrics possible to ensure there are no loopholes that will lead to the laundering of minerals and materials from China or other nations of concern."
