Monday, March 27, 2023 — The ministry of defense in Germany confirms that Germany has sent Ukraine the first shipment of Leopard 2 tanks. German Minister for Defence, Boris Pistorius, expressed his certainty that the tanks were making a decisive contribution on the frontlines of the war for Ukraine. The United Kingdom has also sent its Challenger 2 tanks to Ukraine.

There has been no comment from the Ukrainian government yet about the arrival of the Leopard 2s, but there has been confirmation for the arrival of the first UK-made Challenger 2 tanks.

The German army has trained Ukrainian soldiers to use the advanced A6 variant of the Leopard 2 over the past several weeks. In addition to the Leopard 2, Ukraine also received two specialist tank-recovery vehicles from Germany and 40 Marder infantry fighting vehicles.

Source: BBC 
Monday, February 6, 2023 - Sources from Palestine and Israel confirm that multiple Palestinian militants were killed in a raid conducted by the Israeli army close to Jericho. The death toll is yet to be confirmed, but it is believed to be 5.

The Israel Défense Force (IDF) said the aim of the operation was to arrest a “Hamas terrorist cell”, which was responsible for the gun attack on a restaurant close to a Jewish settlement near Jericho.

Witnesses confirmed that they heard multiple gunfires during the incident in the Aqabat Jabr refugee camp. The spokesperson of the Israeli Defence Force, Ran Kochav, said the soldiers had neutralized the terrorist. He added that some of the terrorists neutralized were involved in the attack on the restaurant.

Jihad Abu al-Assal, the Governor of Jericho, said that, with the five people that the IDF killed, 8 people have also been arrested.

Source: BBC 
Saturday, January 14, 2023 — Since the start of December 2022, China has seen a continual large amount of death from the coronavirus infection. The surge began shortly after President Xi lifted the Zero-Covid Policy to allow for the movement of people for upcoming holidays.

The Head of the Bureau of Medical Administration stated in his account of events that most of those who died were over the age of 65 years and had underline conditions, while some of the victims died due to respiratory distress.

The reported death accounted for were those that occurred in the hospitals only, with worries that the actual number of casualties may be higher. This prompted several countries to issue mandatory testing for those coming from China.

Experts believe that the surge in death has peaked in most areas; however, with high travel schedules, the risk may increase significantly. Therefore, people have been advised to limit their visits to certain areas of the country.

Source: The Guardian 
A total of US$92 billion has been invested in the US battery supply chain since President Joe Biden took office in January 2021, including recent projects announced by ICL and Rhyolite.

The figure includes government and private sector investments into the country’s battery supply chain, including recycling, materials separation and processing and component manufacturing. A total of 78 facilities have been announced, with 72 of them pictured in the above infographic.

One of those is Israel-based speciality minerals firm ICL’s LFP cathode material plant in St Louis, Missouri, previously reported on by Energy-Storage.news late last year, which ICL re-reported to Japanese and Korean markets this week.

The US$400 million project will be half-funded by a grant from the federal government through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law’s US$2.8 billion funding for battery projects, though this still needs to be finalised with the Department of Energy (DOE).

ICL said that by 2025, the share of LFP batteries is expected to reach 30% of all battery shipments by 2025, driven by increased adoption in the EV space as well as growth in energy storage and EV charging infrastructure, two sectors increasingly opting for LFP chemistry ahead of nickel-manganese-cobalt (NMC).

Research firm Wood Mackenzie Power & Renewables said in early 2022 that it expected that LFP will be the dominant battery chemistry over NMC by 2030, as previously reported by Energy-Storage.news.

Earlier in the month, the DOE’s Loan Programs Office, headed by industry veteran Jigar Shah, announced a conditional commitment to provide a US$700 million loan for an upstream lithium project. The Rholite Ridge project in Esmerelda County, Nevada, would process lithium carbonate which would provide the needed material for around 370,000 EVs a year.

The Inflation Reduction Act increased the LPO’s loan authority from US$60 billion to US$100 billion. The institution offers interest rates at US treasury levels and also has a longer tenor (repayment period) than a commercial bank, at 10-15 years versus just a few years for the latter.

As Energy-Storage.news has reported extensively, the Inflation Reduction Act and its precursor the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law have seen the investment climate around the US battery supply chain improve substantially.

Within the lithium-ion gigafactory space, this has been illustrated by the US’ planned capacity growing twice as fast as Europe’s since the Act was passed in August. Companies working in project site selection and development recently told us that companies have been pivoting interest westwards across the Atlantic in light of the incentives and support provided by the two schemes.

This has led Europe to announce plans for its own Inflation Reduction Act-style package of support measures to prevent a potential outflow of investment from its battery ecosystem, a concern recently raised by policymakers.

Energy-Storage.news’ publisher Solar Media will host the 5th Energy Storage Summit USA, 28-29 March 2023 in Austin, Texas. Featuring a packed programme of panels, presentations and fireside chats from industry leaders focusing on accelerating the market for energy storage across the country. 

