Saturday, July 15, 2023 – South Korean President Yoon Suk-Yeol has promised to increase his country's humanitarian and non-lethal military assistance to Ukraine. This decision comes after a summit with the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskiy. Being the world’s ninth-largest arms exporter, South Korea has a longstanding policy not to supply lethal weapons to an active conflict zone.

President Yoon and his wife, Kim Keon-Hee, traveled to Ukraine after visiting Lithuania for a NATO summit. It is the first visit Yoon has made to Ukraine since Russia invaded the country almost 17 months ago. The humanitarian aid would also be increased to $150m in 2023.

During a joint briefing, President Zelenskiy appreciated the South Korean President's encouraging words and firm support. He also praised the transfer of vehicles and demining equipment to Ukraine.

Source: The Guardian 
Sunday, July 16, 2023 – The economy of China has expanded in the second quarter by 6.3% from last year because of a low base. According to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) data, gross domestic product, compared to the first quarter, grew just 0.8% from April to June.

Lockdown as a result of COVID-19 affected the world’s second-largest economy last year, including the financial hub of Shanghai. After lifting the lockdown restriction, the economy strongly rebounded, with GDP growth of 4.5%.

In June, industrial output expanded by 4.4%, and fixed asset investment rose 3.8%during the same month. A new record high was set regarding youth employment, with the jobless rate for those ages 16 to 24 reaching 21.34% in June, which surpassed the previous record of 20.8% that was set in May. 

Source: CNN
Wednesday, July 12, 2023 – Japan and South Korea officials confirmed North Korea had fired a suspected intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM). The long-range missile flew for over one hour just before landing in Japanese water on Wednesday morning. In response to the missile, the United States and South Korea have increased their joint military drill around the peninsula.

North Korea fired the missile shortly after threatening retaliation against the United States for the recent spy plane incursion over its territory. However, the accusations were dismissed by Washington, saying its military patrols are in line with international law.

The President of South Korea, Yoon Suk-Yeol, convened an emergency meeting of his national security council. He convened the meeting in Lithuania, where he is attending the NATO summit.

Source: BBC
BÉCANCOUR, Que., Aug. 17, 2023 – SK On, EcoProBM and Ford today are announcing an investment of C$1.2 billion to build a cathode manufacturing facility that will provide materials that ultimately supply batteries for Ford’s future electric vehicles.

Once production begins in the first half of 2026, the site will have the capacity to produce up to 45,000 tonnes of CAM per year.

This new facility – Ford’s first investment in Québec – is part of the automaker’s plan to localize key battery raw material processing in regions where it produces EVs.

“Ford has been serving customers in Canada for 119 years, longer than any other automaker, and we’re excited to invest in this new facility to create a vertically integrated, closed-loop battery manufacturing supply chain in North America designed to help make electric vehicles more accessible for millions of people over time,” said Bev Goodman, president and CEO, Ford of Canada. “We’re excited for the opportunity for our first-ever investment in Québec with a new facility that will help shape the EV ecosystem there.”

EcoPro CAM Canada LP will manufacture cathode active materials and, more precisely, high quality Nickel Cobalt Manganese (NCM) for rechargeable batteries that are targeting greater performance levels and improved EV range compared to existing products, thanks in part to EcoPro’s core shell gradient (CSG) technology.

Construction has begun on the 280,000 square-meter (or more than 3 million square-feet) site and will include a six-floor building that will house approximately 345 new jobs for Canada – from engineers and sales and service professionals to co-op positions for students from local universities and colleges in Québec. EcoPro CAM Canada LP also will pursue research and development activities aiming at increasing battery safety and performance as well as increasing productivity and minimizing the environmental footprint of its manufacturing process.

EcoProBM established EcoPro CAM Canada LP in February. SK On and Ford will become investors once the deal is closed; the joint venture is subject to closing conditions and regulatory approvals. EcoProBM will oversee the day-to-day operations of the facility.

North America is key to SK On’s growth plans

For SK On, the new facility is part of its efforts to secure a stable supply of key battery materials in North America. The South Korean battery maker has been actively developing its battery supply chain in the region where demand for EVs is growing fast.

The latest investment also shows that SK On, which currently operates two battery plants and is adding four more plants with its partners in North America, is committed to lead the way in the region’s transition to EVs. SK On’s annual production capacity in North America is expected to reach more than 180 GWh after 2025, which is enough to power about 1.7 million EVs a year.

“Through the cathode JV, the three companies can have a stable supply of battery raw materials in North America,” said  SK On Chief Commercial Officer Min-suk Sung. “We will continue to work with our partners to lead electrification of the global auto market.”

EcoProBM continues its global expansion

For EcoProBM, Canada is the second global market expansion after Hungary and marks the company’s entry into North America.

Through the joint venture, the Québec facility will become a key landmark for EcoProBM’s pioneering of the North American market. EcoProBM will invest to mass produce and supply 45,000 tonnes of cathode materials, supporting production of up to 225,000 electric vehicles annually.

In 2021, EcoProBM established a complete cathode material ecosystem in Pohang, Korea – handling everything from recycling waste batteries to producing lithium, precursors and cathode materials.

“By expanding here in North America, EcoProBM looks forward to globalizing our growth in cathode materials, which has been a unique strength of our company,” said Jae-hwan Joo, EcoProBM CEO. “We also are prepared to contribute to the community in Canada and Québec and contribute to the development of the local economy, including by hiring locally.”

New facility reflects strong collaboration with Canadian government leaders

Support from both the federal and provincial governments was vital to securing this joint investment for Canada and Québec.

“This investment once again shows that Canada is the green strategic partner of choice for world leaders in the automobile industry,” said The Honourable François-Philippe Champagne, Minister of Innovation, Science and Industry. “Today, we are helping to further position Quebec as a key hub in the electric vehicle supply chain, as we continue to build our battery ecosystem. This investment is good for the environment and for the economy, and it will ensure well-paying jobs for years to come.”

François Legault, Premier of Quebec, added: “I am very proud that Quebec has drawn the attention of big players like Ford-EcoProBM-SK On. After GM-Posco this spring, we are announcing a new major investment of 1.2 billion in the Vallée de la transition énergétique, which will allow for the construction of a new cathode active materials plant in Bécancour. We are building the foundations of an industry that will allow Quebec to become a leader in the green economy in North America and the world. With the energy transition, we have the chance to make a name for ourselves in the new economy, to become richer all while reducing global GHG emissions.”

About Ford Motor Company
Ford Motor Company (NYSE: F) is a global company based in Dearborn, Michigan, committed to helping build a better world, where every person is free to move and pursue their dreams.  The company’s Ford+ plan for growth and value creation combines existing strengths, new capabilities and always-on relationships with customers to enrich experiences for customers and deepen their loyalty.  Ford develops and delivers innovative, must-have Ford trucks, sport utility vehicles, commercial vans and cars and Lincoln luxury vehicles, along with connected services.  The company does that through three customer-centered business segments:  Ford Blue, engineering iconic gas-powered and hybrid vehicles; Ford Model e, inventing breakthrough EVs along with embedded software that defines exceptional digital experiences for all customers; and Ford Pro, helping commercial customers transform and expand their businesses with vehicles and services tailored to their needs.  Additionally, Ford provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company.  Ford employs about 176,000 people worldwide.  More information about the company and its products and services is available at corporate.ford.com.

About SK On
SK On is a global leading electric vehicle (EV) battery developer, manufacturer, and solutions provider whose mission is to make our world a cleaner and more convenient place as an electrification linchpin. SK On was launched as an independent company in October 2021 after SK Innovation, South Korea’s largest energy company, decided to split off its battery business unit. SK On aims to become a world leader in the clean energy industry by leveraging its global production base and R&D capabilities, as well as its production and quality management know-how. Headquartered in Seoul, South Korea, SK On has a worldwide presence with battery plants currently operating or in construction across the United States, Europe, and Asia.

EcoProBM, which was spun off from its parent company EcoPro in May 2016 by means of physical division for specialization in cathode materials, is a company that leads the high-volume cathode material market at home and abroad based on its success in developing and mass-producing high-nickel cathode materials for the first time in Korea. Based on the infinite future growth potential of lithium-ion secondary cells, such as electric vehicles (EV), electric energy storage systems (ESS), uninterruptible power supply (UPS), smart grids, and ones for aerospace, medical and military purposes, EcoProBM will grow into a core material company that makes Korea the leader of next-generation battery market. EcoProBM has already secured international competitiveness with its development of original fundamental technologies and mass production technology accumulated for over 16 years when it comes to high-nickel cathode materials. Also, EcoProBM is getting ready to advance into the global EV market. With this aim, it has improved cathode material technology applied to high-end cathode materials with ceaseless R&D and developed next-generation materials such as a highly stable single crystal in response to market changes. EcoProBM promises to do its best to stand tall as a leading company in the field of core materials for secondary cells while satisfying customers and market needs.


About Ford Motor Company of Canada, Limited
Ford of Canada’s operations include a national headquarters, three vehicle assembly and engine manufacturing plants, three parts distribution centres, and three Connectivity and Innovation centres. Ford employs approximately 7,000 people in Canada, while an additional 18,000 people are employed in the more than 400 Ford and Ford-Lincoln dealerships across the country. For more information, please visit www.ford.ca.