Thursday, August 24, 2023 – Yevgeny Prigozhin, a notable and influential mercenary in Russia, was on board a plane that crashed north of Moscow with no survivors. Neither the Kremlin nor the Defense Ministry commented on the fate of Prigozhin, the leader of the Wagner mercenary group and a self-declared enemy of the army's leadership.

Grey Zone, a Telegram channel linked to Wagner, has pronounced him dead. They hailed him as a hero and patriot who it said had died in the hands of unidentified people called “traitors to Russia.”

The death of Prigozhin would also leave Wagner Group leaderless and raise questions about its future operations in Africa and other places. The executive jet that crashed, the Brazilian Embraer Legacy 600 model, has only recorded one accident in over 20 years of service.

Source: Reuters
Friday, September 8, 2023 – The amount of rain that fell in Hong Kong in a single hour on Thursday night was 158.1 mm, the most since records began being kept in 1884. This record-breaking rainfall led to widespread flooding and disrupted train and road traffic. The city's Mass Transit Railway said that service on one of its lines would be temporarily halted after a station in the Wong Tai Sin neighborhood was flooded, with a few other stations also affected.

Only a few days after the city narrowly avoided significant damage from a super typhoon, the city experienced record rain in the hour leading up to midnight on Thursday. No death has been recorded yet.

Heavy rain was also reported in Shenzhen, a neighboring Chinese tech powerhouse. According to Hong Kong officials, the city has prepared to dump water from its reservoirs, which might result in flooding in sections of northern Hong Kong.

Source: The Guardian
Monday, July 3, 2023 – Kyiv’s domestic intelligence agency confirmed that the authorities had charged former top security officials in Ukraine with treason. The move is aimed at identifying Russia’s spies within.

Oleh Kulinich, the former head of the Security Service of Ukraine’s (SBU) Crimea directorate, was arrested last July on the charges that he required other Russian-friendly operatives on orders from Russia. If Kulinich is convicted, he faces up to 15 years in prison.

The President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, praised the arrest of Kulinich last year and termed it a process of self-purification. The former SBU chief, Ivan Bakanov, was also sacked by Zelenskiy. 

Authorities are also investigating a former head of the SUB’s Department of internal security, Andriy Naumov, who arrived in Serbia last year with a car full of cash and emeralds.

Source: Reuters 
As automakers look to reduce their reliance on critical raw materials such as cobalt, lithium and nickel, investments into EV battery recycling efforts have grown. In addition to the most recent funding, Redwood Materials previously received a $2 billion loan commitment from the Department of Energy to expand its battery materials recycling capacity to support the growing EV market. 

“We believe the Redwood team is well-positioned to become a leader in the battery materials industry,” Sebastien Gagnon, managing director in private equity at Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said in a statement. 

Redwood was founded by former Tesla co-founder and chief technology officer J.B. Straubel, who still serves on the automaker’s board of directors. The company aims to create a circular supply chain in the U.S. by recovering critical raw materials from electric vehicle batteries at their end-of-life. In the future, these types of recycling efforts could reduce the costs of producing new batteries, which was roughly $153/kWh in 2022, according to DOE. 

Redwood’s recycling efforts may also help automakers reduce their dependence on critical raw materials, including lithium, nickel, cobalt, copper and graphite. These materials account for nearly 80% of the materials cost of producing lithium-ion batteries for EVs. 

Most cathode and anode materials are not produced in North America, according to Redwood. Without sufficient U.S. production, domestic battery cell manufacturers may offshore over $150 billion in economic value for anode and cathode components by 2030, according to Redwood. 

Redwood says it can recover roughly 95% of nickel, cobalt, lithium and copper from end-of-life EV batteries, which can be used to manufacture cathode and anode materials for new batteries. 

As EV sales increase, more vehicle batteries will reach the end of their service life, requiring alternative recycling solutions to prevent them from being discarded in landfills, according to a July report from Guidehouse Insights.

In February 2022, Ford and Volvo signed an agreement with Redwood Materials to recycle end-of-life battery packs from hybrid and electric vehicles in California.

Redwood aims to produce 100 GWh of cathode and anode components per year by 2025, which is enough to manufacture battery cells for around 1 million EVs annually. The company is targeting 500 GWh a year — enough for five million EVs —  by 2030.

Tesla’s battery supplier, Panasonic, plans to use recycled cathode materials supplied by Redwood to produce batteries at its new factory in Kansas, which is slated to begin production in 2025. It will be the first time recycled materials will be integrated into large-scale battery cell manufacturing in the U.S., according to Redwood.