Monday, December 4, 2023 – At least 47 people have been confirmed dead due to a severe flooding and landslide in northern Tanzania. 80 people were also wounded in the incident. The President of the country, Samia Hassan has deployed national security forces to help with rescue efforts. 

A rainfall that was higher than usual in Tanzania last month resulted in the deaths and destruction of property in the capital Dar es Salaam and the areas of Kigoma, Kagera, Geita, and Unguja. Crops have been washed away in some parts of the country, which affects the livelihood of the people.

According to a report, flooding is said to be the greatest natural disaster in Tanzania, which affects tens of thousands of people each year. In 2023, east Africa was badly hit by floods and landslides, partly caused by the El Nino weather phenomenon.

Source: BBC
Monday, November 27, 2023 – Officials confirm that the truce which led to the release of 50 Israelis and several other nationals has been extended by two days. The Red Cross and Israel Defense Forces confirmed that 11 Israelis were freed by Hamas on Monday, which brings the total number of freed hostages to 69.

Israel also released 33 Palestinian prisoners, bringing the total number of Palestinians that were released over the cause of the truce to 150. Spokesperson of the foreign ministry of Qatar, Majed Al-Ansari posted on X to confirm the extension of the truce.

Hamas confirmed that it accepted the truce extension, under the same condition that it was reached before. Senior Adviser to the Prime Minister of Israel, Mark Regev, said that Israel is willing to extend the truce by another day if Hamas releases 10 hostages.

Source: CNN 
Wednesday, November 22, 2023 – Both Israel and Hamas announced on Wednesday that they have agreed to a four-day ceasefire. Alongside the ceasefire deal, 50 women and children that are held hostage in Gaza would be released, in return for 150 Palestinian women and children. A senior United States official confirmed the deal, saying that three Americans would be included in the hostages that would be freed.

The President of the United States, Joe Biden, commended the deal and tanked Egypt and Qatar for their critical leadership and partnership in reaching the deal. The foreign ministry of Qatar said that the start time of the deal would be announced in the next 24 hours.

Alongside the deal, Israel also agreed to allow more aid to enter Gaza, which is suffering an acute humanitarian crisis, after being under serious attack for the past seven weeks.

Source: The Guardian
BEIJING, Dec 7 (Reuters) - China said on Thursday that Biden administration plans to limit Chinese content in batteries eligible for generous electric vehicle tax credits from next year violate international trade norms and will disrupt global supply chains.
The plans will make investors in the U.S. electric vehicle (EV) supply chain ineligible for tax credits should they use more than a trace amount of critical materials from China, or other countries deemed a "Foreign Entity of Concern" (FEOC).
"Targeting Chinese enterprises by excluding their products from a subsidy's scope is typical non-market orientated policy," said He Yadong, a commerce ministry spokesperson.
"Many World Trade Organization members, including China, have expressed concern about the discriminatory policy of the U.S., which violates the WTO's basic principles," he said.
China's dominant position in the global battery supply chain has prompted United States and European officials to take action over fears that cheap Chinese EVs could flood their markets.
The European Commission is currently investigating whether Chinese manufacturers benefit from unfair state subsidies.
Washington has already passed two laws explicitly excluding investors from being able to benefit from a $6 billion allocation of tax credits for batteries and critical minerals, as well as subsidies of $7,500 for every new energy vehicle produced, should they include FEOCs in their supply chains.
The term applies to China, Russia, North Korea and Iran. The rules will come into effect in 2024 for completed batteries and 2025 for the critical minerals.
U.S. President Joe Biden's administration is also proposing tough criteria, including a 25% ownership threshold, for determining whether a company is controlled by a FEOC.
"By establishing 'glass barriers', the U.S. is doing more harm than good to the development of EV technologies and the industry more broadly," He said, warning that the plans would "seriously disrupt international trade and investment".