Tuesday, March 14, 2023 – A United States drone has crashed into the black sea following an encounter with a Russian fighter jet. The United States military confirmed that the fighter jet damaged the propeller of the American MQ-9 Reaper drone.

Commander of the U.S. Air Force Europe and Air Force Africa, Air Force Gen. James B. Hecker, said in a statement that the “MQ-9 aircraft was conducting routine operations in international airspace when it was intercepted and hit by a Russian aircraft, which resulted in a crash and complete loss of the MQ-9.”

Anatoly Antonov, the Ambassador of Russia to the United States after he was summoned to the State Department following the drone incident, said Russia does not want any confrontation with the United States.

The National Security Council communications coordinator said he is unsure whether or not the U.S. will recover the drone.

Source: CNN 
Monday, February 6, 2023 – Earthquakes hit the border of Turkiye and Syria, leading to widespread disorder and destruction in the two countries. A first Earthquake of magnitude 7.8 hit south of the East Anatolian fault, which separates the Anatolian plate and the Arabian plate, while a second quake of magnitude 7.5 hit north of the Faultline.

Since the incident, the death toll has continued to rise, with a count of over 12,000 people killed in the disaster. Sources report that the death toll could go much higher because the widespread destruction has led to the delay in emergency services reaching the affected area.

Authorities reported that up to 10 cities were affected in Turkiye. In Syria, Aleppo, which contained more than a million refugees fleeing from war, is one of the most affected cities in Syria.

Criticism has grown as families in some hard-hit communities have complained that the delayed pace of rescue attempts has left them digging for relatives alone.

International support has arrived from major countries as Leaders of both Syria and Turkiye have acknowledged that there was no way to prepare for an earthquake and that they cannot face the disaster alone.

Source: BBC
Thursday, February 16, 2023 – 10 days following multiple earthquakes along the border of Turkiye and Syria, emergency services continue to rescue people from under the rubble. So far, the death toll after 10 days stands at 42,000.

Most people blamed poor construction standards for the massive death toll, and some even mentioned that the actual number of fatalities exceeded official figures. More than 100 developers and builders have been arrested in Turkey, but the officials authorized the construction have escaped.

The UN has launched separate appeals for Turkiye and Syria separately, amounting to $1bn and $400m, respectively, as relief funds. In both countries, more than 1 million people have been displaced, with NATO commenting on the Turkish disaster as one of the most devastating natural disasters ever on NATO soil.

Source: The Guardian  
What do US economic power, national security, and climate goals have in common? They are all critical to the health and well-being of the country and its people, and they all rely on the power of the lithium battery.

Lithium batteries fuel a wide variety of devices and applications—in particular, electric vehicles and energy storage systems on the electrical grid supply. In fact, lithium batteries will be one of the key technologies shaping the 21st century.

But the US lacks a steady and secure supply of lithium batteries. Consequently, the country relies heavily on imports and captures only 30% of the value-add in lithium batteries that are consumed in the US. This limits the country’s economy—well beyond the battery market itself; other markets that rely on the batteries, such as electric vehicles, consumer electronics, and medical devices, are similarly disadvantaged. Likewise, critical security requirements and sustainability goals are jeopardized by the lack of readily available lithium battery power, putting the nation as a whole at risk.

To remedy the shortcoming and relieve the risks, the US Department of Energy launched Li-Bridge, a project that brings together US lithium battery technology experts. Their mission: to devise a strategy for a robust, sustainable lithium battery supply chain for North America.

Li-Bridge’s Goals
Li-Bridge has established a 2030 goal for the US lithium battery industry: to double current value capture, such that the US will increase its domestic stake of the US market to 60%. This would add $17 billion in direct value and 40,000 direct jobs.

The 2050 goal is decidedly more ambitious. Li-Bridge believes that nearly 100% of the domestic market can be captured through domestic production. Underlying this projection is the anticipation that most required materials will come from recycled lithium batteries and that investment levels will rise. Reaching this goal would make the US a powerful force in the battery industry, positioned not only to support itself but also to profit from the export of batteries and battery-related technology worldwide.

Reaching these goals means overcoming the challenges that are currently holding back battery development and market growth.

Key Challenges
To develop a healthy US lithium battery supply chain and meet the Li-Bridge 2030 and 2050 goals, nine challenges must be overcome. Chief among them:

A Lack of Attractive Returns on US Capital Investment. BCG estimates that more than $100 billion of cumulative investment is needed to meet the 2030 Li-Bridge goal. This includes new mines and new cell-manufacturing facilities. Some funding (about half of that total) has been committed, but more is needed—and soon, given the long development timelines.

Lengthy and Uncertain Timelines to Secure Permits and Project Approvals, Especially Upstream. Reportedly, delays range from six months to ten years. Bureaucratic processes, appeals processes, and community resistance are to blame; all of these impediments must be addressed. Otherwise, the uncertainty will continue to suppress much-needed investment and make the US a less unattractive place to do business.. Solving this problem will also relieve supply shortfalls, build US supply, and help US companies commercialize more-advanced, lower-impact technologies.

Lack of Access to Critical Minerals and Raw Energy Materials. In some countries, state support has enabled companies to build a supply of critical minerals and energy materials. Likewise, in the US, government action is needed to level the playing field. This is particularly critical given reports of pending shortages within 4 to 12 years.

Objectives for Industry and Government
Industry alone can’t solve the challenges. US government action is needed as well. Li-Bridge has developed a set of broad objectives to guide both groups:

Improve the investment attractiveness of US-based lithium battery technology and technology and material production through expanded and better-designed supply- and demand-side incentives.
Support research, product, and business model innovation and accelerate pathways to commercialization through investments in R&D and validation and scaling capabilities.
Help US companies secure access to critical minerals and energy materials (virgin and recycled, domestic- and foreign-sourced) and low-carbon infrastructure.
Address know-how gaps by investing in workforce training.
Establish an enduring US public-private partnership to support the development of a robust and sustainable lithium battery supply chain in North America.