Monday, September 25, 2023 – The President of France, Emmanuel Macron has revealed a national ecological plan to reduce France’s greenhouse gas emissions by 55% and end the use of fossil fuels by 2030. The President, while speaking after a special ministerial council at the Elysee, said an additional €10bn would be spent in executing the 50-point program.

Other measures that are included in the plan include the speedy production of electric cars, with brakes on gas boilers, new projects for offshore wind farms, and the opening of several electric battery factories in the northern part of the country. Before the end of 2030, the companies that are responsible for 50 of the dirtiest industrial sites in France are expected to sign an agreement to reduce pollution by 45%

President Macron also added that full control of electricity prices would be back with the state by next month.

Source:  The Guardian 
Friday, August 18, 2023 – The foreign ministry of Russia has confirmed that Russia has banned 54 British nationals and people who work for organizations in the United Kingdom from entering the country. The decision was taken in retaliation to the sanctions on Russian citizens by the government of the United Kingdom.

Russian government sanctioned the cultural secretary, Lucy Frazer; they accuse her of actively lobbying for the international sports isolation of Russia. Some of those who were sanctioned were the chief prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, Karim Khan, and the minister of State for Defense, Annabel Goldie.

The United Kingdom is among the Western countries to sanction Russia in response to its war with Ukraine in 2022. Over 1,000 businesses and individuals have been sanctioned by the U.S., EU, U.K., and other countries.

Source: BBC 
Wednesday, August 30, 2023 – The military officers in Gabon have announced that they are taking over from the country’s president, Ali Bongo, which threatens the family’s half-century rule over the country. The announcement was made on national television by men in uniform. They said they have placed the present under house arrest. The announcement has caused celebrations and gunfire reports on the capital's streets.

While speaking on national television, a spokesman of the Committee for the Transition and Restoration of Institutions (CTRI) confirmed that General Brice Oligui Nguema had been designated president of the transition. The junta also said investigations would be launched against the President’s son, who was arrested alongside six other individuals for high treason.

The military officers confirmed that the election result would be voided and all the country's borders would be shut. They also added that all institutions in the country have been shut down.

Source: CNN 
OTTAWA, Sept 21 (Reuters) - Canada and Japan on Thursday agreed to work more closely together to establishing sustainable and reliable global battery supply chains, the Canadian government said in a statement.
The two sides signed a memorandum of cooperation on the supply chains during a visit by Japanese Industry Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura, it said, but gave no details.
Canada, home to a large mining sector for minerals such as lithium, nickel and cobalt, wants to woo firms involved in all levels of the electric vehicle (EV) supply chain via a multibillion-dollar green technology.

"As worldwide demand shifts increasingly towards cleaner forms of energy, Canada's critical minerals resources and battery supply chains will play a vital role in how we get there," said Natural Resources Minister Jonathan Wilkinson.
Earlier this month a unit of South Korea's Solus Advanced Materials said it would will build a copper foil facility in the province of Quebec, producing technology for EV batteries.