Monday, June 19, 2023 – Italy has moved to block a Chinese state-owned company from taking over Pirelli, a renowned tire-making industry. The decision by the Italian government is part of measures to protect the independence of Pirelli.

In a statement, Pirelli said to investors that the government of Italy had ruled that only Camfin, a company which is controlled by Pirelli’s boss, Marco Tronchetti Provera, has the authority to nominate candidates to be its chief executive.

The agreement was examined by the administration of the Italian Prime Minister under the “Golden Power Procedure” rules. The rule aims to protect the business reviewed as strategically important to the nation.

Pirelli was sold for €7.1bn ($7.8bn) in 2015 to a group of investors, including ChemChina and Camfin. ChemChina merged with state-owned Sinochem six years later.

Source: BBC 
Thursday, June 15, 2023 – Global temperatures surged to record-high levels this month, a worrying indicator of the impending climate crisis. Global average temperatures for June are roughly 1C higher than averages for the same month going back to 1979. 

Although the month is not yet over and may not break the June record, according to climate scientists, it continues a trend of intensifying global warming that may make this year the warmest on record, surpassing 2016. This year, from Puerto Rico to Siberia to Spain, has already seen catastrophic, record heatwaves wreak havoc, and last week, poisonous smoke from massive wildfires in Canada obscured the skies above New York City and Washington.

While individuals are experiencing the heat on land, the seas are experiencing an even more extraordinary surge of warmth, with a second straight month of record-high ocean surface temperatures. This affects overall world temperatures, warps fish populations, bleaches coral reefs and causes sea level rise along the shore.

Source: The Guardian 
Wednesday, June 28, 2023 – Vast regions of the United States are still experiencing extreme weather, with temperatures in the south and southwest reaching triple digits and smoke pollution plaguing the midwest. The smoke is caused by fires in northern Quebec and low pressure over the eastern Great Lakes. The north wind would blow the smoke further south into southern Illinois, Indiana, and Kentucky.

Officials in Chicago recommended young people, seniors, and individuals with health difficulties spend more time indoors. Daycare and sports centers in the Chicago area informed parents that their children would be kept indoors to keep them safe.

More than 80 million people are under air quality warnings, primarily from the Midwest to the East Coast. While a heat dome has formed over parts of the United States, more than 40 million Americans are under excessive heat notifications.

Source: The Guardian 
General Motors and South Korean chemical company POSCO Future M announced June 2 that they would be launching the second phase of their Ultium Cathode Active Material (CAM) joint venture by investing over $1 billion in the North American market to increase its production capacity of CAM, a key material used to manufacture lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles. Simultaneously, the investment will also focus on integrating precursor materials production (pCAM) — a specifically engineered combination of processed raw materials that are needed to produce CAM — into the Ultium CAM joint venture.

A site for the joint venture CAM and pCAM complex will be announced at a later date.

GM said that it plans on installing 1 million units of annual EV capacity in North America in 2025 with support from four U.S. battery cell joint venture plants that will initially offer 160 GWh of capacity. Meanwhile, the joint Ultium CAM project is expected to support the production of roughly 360,000 Chevrolet, Cadillac, GMC, Buick and BrightDrop vehicles each year in North America between 2025 and 2030.

"Increasing CAM production capacity and adding pCAM to our joint venture is another significant step in building a more secure and sustainable North America-focused supply chain to support GM's fast-growing EV production needs," said Doug Parks, GM’s executive vice president of Global Product Development, Purchasing and Supply Chain. "We started by establishing battery cell production in the U.S. From there, we have been working through the entire battery supply chain, all the way to raw material recovery. We're building higher levels of vertical integration, driving expanded investment and helping create jobs across North America."

GM has been working hard to improve the battery manufacturing capabilities of the North American market. In April 2023, the automaker announced it was teaming up with Samsung SDI to launch a new battery cell manufacturing plant in the United States by 2026 according to Reuters.