Sunday, November 26, 2023 – During a meeting with the Prime Minister of Vietnam, Pham Minh Chinh, the commerce minister of China, Wang Wentao promised to deepen the bilateral trade ties between China and Vietnam. Mr. Wang said though the relations with Vietnam had already achieved fruitful results, it would now include strategic areas like digital economy, green development, and cross-border e-commerce.

Both China and the United States have been trying to get influence among Southeast Asian nations, which includes Vietnam, which stepped up its ties with Washington in September to a comprehensive strategic partnership.

The Vice Foreign Minister of China, Sun Weidong held a talk with the Deputy Foreign Minister of Vietnam, Nguyen Minh Vu concerning bilateral ties, land border, and maritime issues. Though Chinese President Xi Jinping was expected to travel to Hanoi in late October or early November, it was postponed till December.

Source: Reuters
Wednesday, October 4, 2023 – The military of the United States confirmed that it has sent over 1 million rounds of ammunition seized from the Iranians last year to Ukraine. The U.S. Central Command, which is responsible for military operations in the Middle East confirmed that close to 1.1 million 7.62 mm rounds were sent to Ukraine.

For some years, the United States naval forces have been intercepting fishing vessels and seizing weapons that they believe are from Iran, that are bound for Iran-backed fighters in Yemen.

However, it is likely that the ammunition would not make any major difference on the battlefield for Ukraine, given that it is long-range weapons and air defense systems that are on the top of Ukraine’s wish list. Congress did not include any new money for Ukraine in the stopgap U.S. spending bill that was passed just this weekend.

Source: Reuters
Friday, December 8, 2023 – President of Russia, Vladimir Putin has confirmed that he would stand again for a fifth term in power. He announced an award ceremony for participants of the full-scale war he launched against Ukraine in 2022. His announcement comes a day after election officials in Russia confirmed that the presidential election will be held on 15-17 March 2024.

Mr. Putin ruled the country from 2000 – 2008 and returned to power in 2012. This means he has been in power in Russia longer than any ruler since Josef Stalin. In 2020, the Russian constitution was amended, which increased the presidential term from four to six years. This gives Mr. Putin a clean slate to run again next year by canceling out his previous term.

Power was handed over to Mr. Putin at the very end of 1999 by his ailing predecessor, Boris Yeltsin.

Source: BBC 
WASHINGTON, Nov 12 (Reuters) - The United States and Indonesia on Monday will discuss how to advance a potential minerals partnership aimed a stimulating trade of the electric vehicle (EV) battery metal nickel, according to three people with direct knowledge of the conversations.
Next steps that could move the countries toward formal negotiations on the partnership will be discussed when Indonesian President Joko Widodo visits the White House for a meeting with U.S. President Joe Biden on Monday, according to one of the people.

The Biden administration is still concerned about environmental, social and governance standards in Indonesia and is examining how a deal might work, the sources said. The administration also plans further consultations with U.S. lawmakers and labor groups in the coming weeks, one of the sources said.
"There's a lot of work to do before we are able to formally announce negotiations on a critical minerals partnership," the person said.
The White House did not respond to a request for comment.
Indonesia, which has the world's biggest nickel ore reserves, in September asked the United States to begin discussions for a trade deal for critical minerals so that exports from the Southeast Asian country can be covered under the U.S. Inflation Reduction Act (IRA).
Most of Indonesia's nickel is processed into crude metal but the government is keen to develop an EV supply chain to use the vast reserves of nickel, which can be processed into battery materials.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
The Biden administration discussions, which include U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai as well as the White House, focus on making sure that any potential nickel supply be produced with as little environmental impact as possible, according to one of the sources, who directly advised the administration and was not authorized to speak publicly.
"The overall momentum is promising, but (we) don't want to minimize the fact that there is a fair amount of work to be done here," one of the people said.
Indonesia's nickel supplies are the world's largest and nickel mining there has been blamed for heavy deforestation and water pollution.
Under guidelines for the U.S. law issued in March, Washington has required that a certain amount of critical minerals in EV batteries be produced or assembled in North America or a free trade partner, for EVs sold in the United States to be eligible for tax credits. Indonesia does not have a free trade agreement with the United States.
The Biden administration is also discussing ways to carve out any nickel that is extracted from Indonesia but processed in China from receiving the IRA credits, one of the sources added.
One estimate puts the global market value for the nickel industry at $33.5 billion in 2022, though the market is over-supplied.
The only U.S. nickel mine is set to close in a few years, and the country has no nickel smelter, a risk to Biden's goal for the United States to lead in EV manufacturing.
The government last year gave nearly $115 million to Talon Metals (TLO.TO), opens new tab, to partially fund a nickel processing plant in North Dakota that will supply Tesla Inc (TSLA.O), opens new tab.
Talon is seeking permits for its proposed Minnesota nickel mine, but has faced opposition from Indigenous people. Many U.S. miners have said that the Biden administration should focus more on approving domestic projects than seeking international supply.