Saturday, December 2, 2023 – The President of Russia, Vladimir Putin has ordered the military of the country to increase the number of troops by 170,000, as the war between Russia and Ukraine enters its 22nd month. With the increase, the overall number of Russian military personnel will amount to more than 2.2 million, including 1.32 million troops.

According to the country’s defense ministry, it said the expansion was due to “growing threats to the country,” which includes the war with Ukraine and the continuing expansion of NATO. The ministry also said that the increment would be implemented in stages through a recruitment drive.

The latest order from Putin comes as Russia’s war with Ukraine is about to enter its second winter, and it is also the second time since the start of the war that such an order was given.

Source: CNN 
Monday, December 25, 2023 – A Russian opposition leader, Alexei Navalny, who was jailed has been found in a remote prison colony above the Arctic Circle after he went missing for over three weeks. His spokesperson confirmed that they tracked Navalny down to the IK-3 penal colony in Kharp, which is about 1,200 miles northeast of Moscow.

Navalny was sentenced to close to three decades in jail after he started a nationwide political opposition against President Vladimir Putin. He then disappeared from a prison in the Vladimir region close to Moscow on December 6. Three lawyers who were representing Navalny were previously detained by Russian authorities so that they could isolate him completely.

Navalny was previously poisoned in Russia in 2020, after which he was evacuated to Germany for treatment. He returned to Russia in 2021, after which he was arrested and sentenced to 30 decades in prison on charges of fraud.

Source: The Guardian 
Wednesday, December 27, 2023 – Eight North Korean citizens have been sanctioned by South Korea because they are linked to nuclear and missile development through arms trade, cyberattacks other illicit activities. The sanctions came days after an intercontinental ballistic missile was fired by North Korea. This action was strongly condemned by South Korea and the United States because it violates the resolution of the Security Council of the United Nations.

Part of the people that were blacklisted include Ri Chang Ho, head of the Reconnaissance General Bureau which is involved in overseas hacking operations, and Yun Chol who assisted in supplying nuclear materials while working with the North Korean Embassy in China.

Since October 2022, a total of 83 individuals and 53 entities related to North Korea’s weapons program have been blacklisted by South Korea.

Source: Reuters
BEIJING, Dec 7 (Reuters) - China said on Thursday that Biden administration plans to limit Chinese content in batteries eligible for generous electric vehicle tax credits from next year violate international trade norms and will disrupt global supply chains.
The plans will make investors in the U.S. electric vehicle (EV) supply chain ineligible for tax credits should they use more than a trace amount of critical materials from China, or other countries deemed a "Foreign Entity of Concern" (FEOC).
"Targeting Chinese enterprises by excluding their products from a subsidy's scope is typical non-market orientated policy," said He Yadong, a commerce ministry spokesperson.
"Many World Trade Organization members, including China, have expressed concern about the discriminatory policy of the U.S., which violates the WTO's basic principles," he said.
China's dominant position in the global battery supply chain has prompted United States and European officials to take action over fears that cheap Chinese EVs could flood their markets.
The European Commission is currently investigating whether Chinese manufacturers benefit from unfair state subsidies.
Washington has already passed two laws explicitly excluding investors from being able to benefit from a $6 billion allocation of tax credits for batteries and critical minerals, as well as subsidies of $7,500 for every new energy vehicle produced, should they include FEOCs in their supply chains.
The term applies to China, Russia, North Korea and Iran. The rules will come into effect in 2024 for completed batteries and 2025 for the critical minerals.
U.S. President Joe Biden's administration is also proposing tough criteria, including a 25% ownership threshold, for determining whether a company is controlled by a FEOC.
"By establishing 'glass barriers', the U.S. is doing more harm than good to the development of EV technologies and the industry more broadly," He said, warning that the plans would "seriously disrupt international trade and investment".