Thursday, June 8, 2023 – According to US scientists, El Nino, a natural weather occurrence has begun in the Pacific Ocean, potentially adding heat to global warming due to climate change. They are concerned that it will contribute to the planet exceeding the critical 1.5C warming threshold.

El Nino, a hot phase that happens every two to seven years, causes warm seas to rise to the surface off the coast of South America and spread throughout the ocean, releasing huge amounts of heat into the atmosphere. According to the scientists, since May, the ocean has been 0.5°C hotter than normal for a month, the atmosphere is responding to the heat, and there is evidence that the event is continuing.

Record warm years, such as 2016, the world's hottest on record, typically occur the year following a powerful El Nino event. It will also impact global weather, potentially causing drought in Australia, increased rain in the southern United States, and decreasing India's monsoon.

Source: BBC 
Monday, May 22, 2023 – The biggest oil refinery ever built in Africa opened in Nigeria, which plans to alleviate chronic fuel shortage. Nigeria, which is a major oil producer, has most of it sent abroad while having to import refined fuel used in vehicles and elsewhere.

Although the plant is not operational, it can produce 650,000 barrels of petroleum products daily. The refinery also includes a power station, deep seaport, and fertilizer plant. Building the plant was $19bn (£15.2bn). 

During the launch on Monday, the owner of the refinery, Mr. Aliko Dangote, who is the richest man in Africa, said the first goal of the refinery is to ramp up production of the various products to ensure that they can satisfy the need of the country this year.

Source: BBC 
Tuesday, May 30, 2023 – A blanket diplomatic immunity has been issued by South Africa to all leaders who will attend an August summit. This means that the President of Russia, Vladimir Putin, might be able to make a trip to Johannesburg without the fear of the country acting on an international criminal court arrest warrant for him.

In August, South Africa will host a summit of Brics groups: Brazil, China, India, Russia, and South Africa. A planning meeting of foreign ministers is expected to take place on Thursday, which will last two days.

On Tuesday, the Department of Foreign Affairs backed the immunity, saying it is a standard conferment of immunities for all international conferences and summits held in South Africa. The department also added that “the immunities are for conferences and not for specific individuals.

Source: The Guardian 
Battery maker Verkor will be supplying lithium batteries for the Alpine pure electric C-Crossover GT from its gigafactory in France from 2025

Since Renault made its investment in Verkor the two companies have worked together at the Verkor Innovation Centre (VIC) in Grenoble to approve the technical quality and commercial production process of the battery products Verkor will be supplying from the Dunkirk gigafactory.
