Wednesday, August 30, 2023 – The military officers in Gabon have announced that they are taking over from the country’s president, Ali Bongo, which threatens the family’s half-century rule over the country. The announcement was made on national television by men in uniform. They said they have placed the present under house arrest. The announcement has caused celebrations and gunfire reports on the capital's streets.

While speaking on national television, a spokesman of the Committee for the Transition and Restoration of Institutions (CTRI) confirmed that General Brice Oligui Nguema had been designated president of the transition. The junta also said investigations would be launched against the President’s son, who was arrested alongside six other individuals for high treason.

The military officers confirmed that the election result would be voided and all the country's borders would be shut. They also added that all institutions in the country have been shut down.

Source: CNN 
Friday, July 21, 2023 – The ambassador of Ukraine to London has been dismissed by the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskiy. His dismissal comes shortly after the Ukrainian president was asked to be more grateful for the military help that has been provided to them by the West.

According to a presidential order, Vadym Prystaiko’s dismissal was announced without any official reason, and he was also removed as Ukraine’s representative to the International Maritime Organization. Tension grew between Prystaiko and Zelenskiy when Prystaiko went on Sky News to question some of the behavior of the Ukrainian president. 

However, the tension with the West appears to have reduced, with some Ukrainians believing that enough is not being said about their troops dying on the battlefield every day. They added that the troops do not only fight to regain their sovereignty but also to defend Western values.

Source: The Guardian 
Monday, August 7, 2023 – The Ukrainian Security Service (SBU) confirmed the arrest of an alleged Russian informant connected to a plot to assassinate the president of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky. According to the SBU, the woman is from the southern Ukrainian region of Mykolaiv. However, her name has not been revealed.

According to the SBU, The suspect has been gathering information concerning President Zelensky’s planned visit to Mykolaiv at the end of July to plan a Russian strike to kill the President. SBU, however, managed to get information about the suspect's activities and adopted security measures to foil the plot.

After an investigation, the suspect was found to be a resident of Ochakov in the Mykolaiv region and a former saleswoman in a military store. SBU, you said they caught the woman as she was trying to pass information to the invaders.

Source: CNN 
OSAKA, Japan, July 3 (Reuters) - The battery arm of Japan's Panasonic (6752.T), opens new tab will need to build four more factories to reach its target for a sharp boost in annual capacity of batteries for electric vehicles by 2031, its technology chief told Reuters.
The comments by Shoichiro Watanabe of Panasonic Energy are the Tesla (TSLA.O), opens new tab supplier's first clear indication of the number of additional factories it will need.
They could also fuel expectations of more investment by Japanese companies in the United States, after a deal the two countries struck in March key to widening access for Japanese manufacturers to U.S. electric-vehicle (EV) tax credits.

In May, Panasonic Energy said it aimed to boost annual EV capacity to 200 gigawatt hours (GWh) by early 2031, or about four times its capacity in March this year.
With a plant in Nevada, it is building a second in Kansas that is expected to take annual capacity to 80 GWh once operational, it has said.
"We will need to build around another four factories," Watanabe, the company's chief technology officer, said in an interview at its headquarters in Osaka on Friday.

But he stopped short of mentioning specific locations, time frames or investment sizes.
He signalled an openness to potential joint ventures for EV battery production, with automaker Mazda Motor (7261.T), opens new tab among others, citing the changing nature of such projects in which investment is no longer shouldered by battery makers alone.
"The style where battery producers will make all investments is disappearing," he said, adding that the 200 GWh capacity was the minimum necessary to be a major player.

NORTH AMERICA
Panasonic has said it is focusing on North America to build up capacity for production of 4680 batteries, the newest cells championed by Tesla's chief executive, Elon Musk.
Previously it said it planned to build at least two new factories for 4680 production in North America by 2030. Oklahoma has been seen as a possible site.
The four new plants will need to be supported by about a dozen factories of materials suppliers, Watanabe said, in a battery supply chain built around the principle of "local production for local consumption".

Joint procurement with major customers could also be considered, he said, taking into account tax breaks under the U.S. Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) and the need to limit the carbon footprint.
Given the size of investment required, makers of materials used in the batteries will also need to make decisions about their plans as early as possible, he said.
Panasonic will not rule out the possibility of a joint battery venture with Mazda as part of a supply partnership the companies are working out, Watanabe said.
Last month the firms said they would hold talks on setting up a partnership to supply Mazda with cylindrical lithium-ion batteries made in Japan and North America.
They aim to sign off on it this year, and expect to supply batteries after 2025.