Monday, June 26, 2023 – At least nine people were reportedly killed after Russian air strikes on rebel-held Idlib province, Syria. The United Nations expressed its concerns about the hostilities in the province.

Bombs dropped from warplanes killed nine people next to a market outside Jisr al-Shughour. Two other people were also killed in an air strike near Idlib city. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group has termed the attack the deadliest Russian attack this year.

Russia's military did not comment on the situation immediately. Their air campaign supporting the Syrian government has been crucial in turning the tide of the civil war that has been going on for 12 years. The strikes were said to be a retaliation for attacks that had killed civilians in government-held Hama and Latakia provinces.

Source: BBC
Tuesday, April 18, 2023 – Kremlin confirms that the President of Russia, Vladimir Putin, visited part of Ukraine’s southern Kherson region controlled by Russia. He also visited the Luhansk region in Ukraine. Russia claimed to have annexed both regions, but they did not have full control.

While speaking with the military, Mr. Putin told them that although he doesn’t want to distract them from their duties, he feels “it is important for him to hear their opinion on how the situation is developing, to listen to them and to exchange information.”

In response to the reports of the visit of Mr Putin, an adviser to the office of Mr. Zelensky, Mykhailo Podolyak, tweeted that the Russian leader was touring the occupied and ruined territories of Ukraine to enjoy the crimes that his military had committed.

Source: BBC 
Monday, June 19, 2023 – Italy has moved to block a Chinese state-owned company from taking over Pirelli, a renowned tire-making industry. The decision by the Italian government is part of measures to protect the independence of Pirelli.

In a statement, Pirelli said to investors that the government of Italy had ruled that only Camfin, a company which is controlled by Pirelli’s boss, Marco Tronchetti Provera, has the authority to nominate candidates to be its chief executive.

The agreement was examined by the administration of the Italian Prime Minister under the “Golden Power Procedure” rules. The rule aims to protect the business reviewed as strategically important to the nation.

Pirelli was sold for €7.1bn ($7.8bn) in 2015 to a group of investors, including ChemChina and Camfin. ChemChina merged with state-owned Sinochem six years later.

Source: BBC 
Battery maker Verkor will be supplying lithium batteries for the Alpine pure electric C-Crossover GT from its gigafactory in France from 2025

Since Renault made its investment in Verkor the two companies have worked together at the Verkor Innovation Centre (VIC) in Grenoble to approve the technical quality and commercial production process of the battery products Verkor will be supplying from the Dunkirk gigafactory.
