Wednesday, December 27, 2023 – Eight North Korean citizens have been sanctioned by South Korea because they are linked to nuclear and missile development through arms trade, cyberattacks other illicit activities. The sanctions came days after an intercontinental ballistic missile was fired by North Korea. This action was strongly condemned by South Korea and the United States because it violates the resolution of the Security Council of the United Nations.

Part of the people that were blacklisted include Ri Chang Ho, head of the Reconnaissance General Bureau which is involved in overseas hacking operations, and Yun Chol who assisted in supplying nuclear materials while working with the North Korean Embassy in China.

Since October 2022, a total of 83 individuals and 53 entities related to North Korea’s weapons program have been blacklisted by South Korea.

Source: Reuters
Wednesday, October 18, 2023 – Officials in Palestine have confirmed that hundreds were killed as a result of a massive blast at a Gaza hospital, as humanitarian concerns mount over Israel’s deprivation of food, fuel, and electricity to the enclave’s population. Al-Ahli Hospital was providing shelter to thousands who were displaced when it was bombed. The Ministry of Health in Palestine confirms that there are still a lot of people under the rubble.

Officials from Palestine said the incident was a result of the continuous airstrikes by Israel. Israel's defense forces however denied any involvement in the hospital attack and instead blamed the attack on a “failed rocket launch” by the Palestinian Islamic Jihad group in Gaza.

Israel has laid siege to Gaza for over a week, in response to the deadly incursion by Hamas, the Islamist group that controls the coastal enclave, where 2.2 million people live.

Source: CNN
Wednesday, October 4, 2023 – The military of the United States confirmed that it has sent over 1 million rounds of ammunition seized from the Iranians last year to Ukraine. The U.S. Central Command, which is responsible for military operations in the Middle East confirmed that close to 1.1 million 7.62 mm rounds were sent to Ukraine.

For some years, the United States naval forces have been intercepting fishing vessels and seizing weapons that they believe are from Iran, that are bound for Iran-backed fighters in Yemen.

However, it is likely that the ammunition would not make any major difference on the battlefield for Ukraine, given that it is long-range weapons and air defense systems that are on the top of Ukraine’s wish list. Congress did not include any new money for Ukraine in the stopgap U.S. spending bill that was passed just this weekend.

Source: Reuters
WASHINGTON, Nov 12 (Reuters) - The United States and Indonesia on Monday will discuss how to advance a potential minerals partnership aimed a stimulating trade of the electric vehicle (EV) battery metal nickel, according to three people with direct knowledge of the conversations.
Next steps that could move the countries toward formal negotiations on the partnership will be discussed when Indonesian President Joko Widodo visits the White House for a meeting with U.S. President Joe Biden on Monday, according to one of the people.

The Biden administration is still concerned about environmental, social and governance standards in Indonesia and is examining how a deal might work, the sources said. The administration also plans further consultations with U.S. lawmakers and labor groups in the coming weeks, one of the sources said.
"There's a lot of work to do before we are able to formally announce negotiations on a critical minerals partnership," the person said.
The White House did not respond to a request for comment.
Indonesia, which has the world's biggest nickel ore reserves, in September asked the United States to begin discussions for a trade deal for critical minerals so that exports from the Southeast Asian country can be covered under the U.S. Inflation Reduction Act (IRA).
Most of Indonesia's nickel is processed into crude metal but the government is keen to develop an EV supply chain to use the vast reserves of nickel, which can be processed into battery materials.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
The Biden administration discussions, which include U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai as well as the White House, focus on making sure that any potential nickel supply be produced with as little environmental impact as possible, according to one of the sources, who directly advised the administration and was not authorized to speak publicly.
"The overall momentum is promising, but (we) don't want to minimize the fact that there is a fair amount of work to be done here," one of the people said.
Indonesia's nickel supplies are the world's largest and nickel mining there has been blamed for heavy deforestation and water pollution.
Under guidelines for the U.S. law issued in March, Washington has required that a certain amount of critical minerals in EV batteries be produced or assembled in North America or a free trade partner, for EVs sold in the United States to be eligible for tax credits. Indonesia does not have a free trade agreement with the United States.
The Biden administration is also discussing ways to carve out any nickel that is extracted from Indonesia but processed in China from receiving the IRA credits, one of the sources added.
One estimate puts the global market value for the nickel industry at $33.5 billion in 2022, though the market is over-supplied.
The only U.S. nickel mine is set to close in a few years, and the country has no nickel smelter, a risk to Biden's goal for the United States to lead in EV manufacturing.
The government last year gave nearly $115 million to Talon Metals (TLO.TO), opens new tab, to partially fund a nickel processing plant in North Dakota that will supply Tesla Inc (TSLA.O), opens new tab.
Talon is seeking permits for its proposed Minnesota nickel mine, but has faced opposition from Indigenous people. Many U.S. miners have said that the Biden administration should focus more on approving domestic projects than seeking international supply.