Monday, November 27, 2023 – Officials confirm that the truce which led to the release of 50 Israelis and several other nationals has been extended by two days. The Red Cross and Israel Defense Forces confirmed that 11 Israelis were freed by Hamas on Monday, which brings the total number of freed hostages to 69.

Israel also released 33 Palestinian prisoners, bringing the total number of Palestinians that were released over the cause of the truce to 150. Spokesperson of the foreign ministry of Qatar, Majed Al-Ansari posted on X to confirm the extension of the truce.

Hamas confirmed that it accepted the truce extension, under the same condition that it was reached before. Senior Adviser to the Prime Minister of Israel, Mark Regev, said that Israel is willing to extend the truce by another day if Hamas releases 10 hostages.

Source: CNN 
Thursday, November 16, 2023 – Almost 3,000 towns and communities in Brazil have received red alerts because of an unusual heatwave. The heat has affected over a hundred million people and is predicted to linger for a few more days.

Rio de Janeiro recorded 42.5 degrees Celsius on Sunday, a record for November, and heavy humidity on Tuesday made it seem like 58.5 degrees Celsius, according to municipal authorities, while The National Institute of Meteorology reported average temperatures of 37.3 degrees Celsius in Sao Paulo on Tuesday afternoon.

Officials blamed it on the El Nio phenomenon which is typically responsible for increased global temperature as well as climate change that is causing the increased frequency and duration of extreme weather events.

The heatwave, which arrives more than a month before the start of summer in the southern hemisphere, has caused Brazil's energy usage to reach new highs as people strive to stay cool.

Source: BBC 
Wednesday, October 4, 2023 – The military of the United States confirmed that it has sent over 1 million rounds of ammunition seized from the Iranians last year to Ukraine. The U.S. Central Command, which is responsible for military operations in the Middle East confirmed that close to 1.1 million 7.62 mm rounds were sent to Ukraine.

For some years, the United States naval forces have been intercepting fishing vessels and seizing weapons that they believe are from Iran, that are bound for Iran-backed fighters in Yemen.

However, it is likely that the ammunition would not make any major difference on the battlefield for Ukraine, given that it is long-range weapons and air defense systems that are on the top of Ukraine’s wish list. Congress did not include any new money for Ukraine in the stopgap U.S. spending bill that was passed just this weekend.

Source: Reuters

China has unveiled plans to restrict exports of graphite — a mineral crucial to the manufacture of batteries for electric vehicles (EVs) — on national security grounds, the Ministry of Commerce and the General Administration of Customs said Friday.

The announcement comes just days after the United States imposed additional limits on the kinds of semiconductors that American companies can sell to Chinese firms.

“At the moment both China and Western countries are engaged in a tit for tat, highlighting how protectionist measures often spread. Newton’s third law that every action causes a reaction applies here, too,” said Stefan Legge, head of tax and trade policy research at the University of St Gallen in Switzerland.

“At the same time, both sides of the dispute also realize how costly it is if geopolitics trumps economics,” he added.

China, which dominates the world’s production and processing of graphite, says export permits will be needed, starting in December, for synthetic graphite material — including high-purity, high-strength and high-density versions — as well as for natural flake graphite.

The Institute for Energy Research, a Washington, DC-based research organization, says carmakers are trying to lock in supplies of graphite from sources outside of China, as demand for EV batteries outpaces other uses for the material.

Global sales of EVs, including purely battery-powered vehicles and hybrids, are soaring, according to the International Energy Agency.

Sales exceeded 10 million units last year, up 55% from 2021, and are expected to rise to nearly 14 million vehicles this year, it projected.

According to the US Geological Survey, the market for graphite used in batteries has grown 250% globally since 2018. China was the world’s leading graphite producer last year, accounting for an estimated 65% of global production, it said.

Besides EVs, graphite is commonly used in the semiconductor, aerospace, chemical and steel industries.

Gallium, germanium restrictions
The export curbs were announced as China faces pressure from multiple governments over its commercial and trade practices. For more than a year, it has been embroiled in a tech war with the United States and its allies in Europe and Asia over access to advanced chips and chipmaking equipment.

In July, Beijing imposed export restrictions on gallium and germanium, two minerals essential for making semiconductors. One month later, its overseas shipments of the materials fell to zero.

Ivan Lam, a senior analyst at Counterpoint Research, said China had previously imposed temporary export controls on graphite, with little industry impact, adding that the new rules were not a “complete ban.” Still, he predicts prices will go up.

“We believe that the average price of graphite will continue to rise in the future due to supply and demand imbalances, including Russia, which was one of the major graphite suppliers before the Russia-Ukraine war,” he said.

China has a massive hold on the worldwide supply chain of critical minerals needed to make EV batteries. It refines 60% of the world’s lithium and 80% of the cobalt, according to the US Department of Energy.

