Saturday, May 13, 2023 – The United States and the European Union will pledge joint action to look into concerns about China concerning non-market practices and coordinate their export controls on semiconductors and other goods at a meeting later this month.

Secretary of State of the United States, Antony Blinken, Vice-President of the European Commission, Margarethe Vestager, and other senior officials are expected to meet in Lulea, Sweden, on May 30-31. The meeting will be the fourth edition of the EU-U.S. Trade and Technology Council (TTC).

They also plan to coordinate their controls on sensitive items, including goods with military use and semiconductors. Also, part of their aim is to cooperate to counter foreign manipulation of information, including “China’s amplification of Russian disinformation narratives about the war in Ukraine.”

Source: Reuters 
Friday, April 28, 2023 — At least 25 people have been confirmed after Russia launched a series of air strikes on cities across Ukraine, including Kyiv. Officials confirm that the attack that hit blocks of flats in the central city of Uman killed 23 people, including four children. Another woman and her 3-year-old daughter were killed in the city of Dnipro.

Rescuers were still working at the sites of the explosions, several hours after the attack, residents were also seen trying to retrieve some of their belongings. In the buildings nearby, residents were seen fixing their broken windows.

The Russian defense ministry, after the attack, said the strikes were targeted at Ukrainian army reserve units. 

The President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky the attack is evidence that further international actions have to be taken against Russia.

Source: BBC 
Sunday, June 4, 2023 – An alleged Russian strike in a residential area of Ukraine city, Dnipro, has killed a little girl who is two years old and also left 22 people injured. The governor of the region said the girl's body was pulled out from the rubble of a house in the Pidhorodneska community. Five out of the injured people were children, with three boys in critical condition in the hospital, Serhiy Lysak confirmed. 

The President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, has blamed Russia for the attack. However, no comment has been made about Kremlin concerning the attack. The President described the attack in Dnipro as a deliberate attack, even though Russia had previously denied targeting residential area

Also, explosions were heard in Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv, where the air defense system was again used.

Source: BBC
The carmaker’s battery assembly plant in South Carolina will be key to reducing logistics costs and risks in EV production.

When BMW Group starts production in 2026 at a new battery assembly plant in Woodruff, South Carolina, where executives broke ground this week, the plant will be an important hub in an integrated, localised supply chain for electric vehicle production for the carmaker globally.