Friday, March 17, 2023 — An arrest warrant was issued for the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, and Russian official Maria Lvova-Belova, by the International Criminal Court (ICC). The two individuals were alleged of a scheme to have Ukrainian children deported to Russia.

The court said it has enough evidence to believe that Mr. Putin is guilty of the crime he was accused of, having committed them directly alongside others. The court also said Mr. Putin has failed to exercise proper control over civilian and military subordinates who committed the acts. 

During his nightly address on Friday, the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, appreciated the ICC for its decision. He also said the investigations by Ukraine suggest that Kremlin was directly involved in the forced deportation of children into Russia.

Source: CNN 
Friday, February 24, 2023 — China has urged the G20 nations to conduct a fair, objective, and in-depth analysis of the possible causes of the global debt issues and to tackle the problem comprehensively and effectively. Minister for finance in China, Liu Kun, joined a video meeting of the bloc’s finance ministers and central bank chiefs in Bengaluru and India.

According to the statement released by the Chinese finance ministry, Liu said that to resolve debt issues, international financial institutions and commercial creditors should go along with the principle of joint actions.

Officials from the IMF, the World Bank, and G7 nations will convene on Saturday for the first face-to-face discussions of the new IMF Global Sovereign Debt Roundtable.

Officials from Zambia and Ghana await assurance from China regarding debt-restructuring support.

Source: Reuters 
Saturday, March 25, 2023 — The ministry of foreign affairs in Honduras announced on Saturday that the country is formally ending its diplomatic ties with Taiwan. 

In the statement, the ministry said, “the government of the Republic of Honduras recognizes the existence of one China in the world and that the government of the People’s Republic of China represents China as a whole.” The ministry also added that it recognizes Taiwan as part of China and ends the diplomatic tie with Taiwan.

China will not maintain diplomatic ties with any country that recognizes Taiwan. They have spent much of the last 40 years trying to isolate the self-ruled island by taking away its diplomatic allies with offers of economic support. Under the leadership of Xi Jinping, China has mounted military, diplomatic, and economic pressure on Taiwan.

Source: CNN 
近日，宁德时代与电池储能项目开发公司HGP达成450MWh电池储能项目供货协议。双方还将建立长期合作伙伴关系，推动高达5GWh公用事业级和分布式储能项目的落地，以满足美国德克萨斯州对可再生能源能源日益增长的需求。



该450MWh电池储能项目将部署在德克萨斯州，预计2024年开始商业运营。宁德时代将为HGP提供户外预制舱系统EnerC，该产品具有高安全、长寿命和高集成的特点。EnerC兼具IP55防护等级和C5防腐等级，能够适应各种极端天气。得益于宁德时代的一体化液冷系统，项目的安全可靠运行将得到进一步保障。



此次合作充分发挥了宁德时代在先进电池技术和HGP在能源基础设施及储能资源开发方面的专业优势，将为市场提供更加便捷的解决方案，满足德克萨斯州和北美对清洁能源日益增长的需求，充分彰显双方对实现可持续发展的坚定承诺。



HGP是一家领先的能源基础设施和储能资源开发商，总部位于美国德克萨斯州达拉斯市，拥有数十年部署电网投资级储能资产的市场经验。s