Thursday, August 24, 2023 – Yevgeny Prigozhin, a notable and influential mercenary in Russia, was on board a plane that crashed north of Moscow with no survivors. Neither the Kremlin nor the Defense Ministry commented on the fate of Prigozhin, the leader of the Wagner mercenary group and a self-declared enemy of the army's leadership.

Grey Zone, a Telegram channel linked to Wagner, has pronounced him dead. They hailed him as a hero and patriot who it said had died in the hands of unidentified people called “traitors to Russia.”

The death of Prigozhin would also leave Wagner Group leaderless and raise questions about its future operations in Africa and other places. The executive jet that crashed, the Brazilian Embraer Legacy 600 model, has only recorded one accident in over 20 years of service.

Source: Reuters
Monday, September 25, 2023 – The President of France, Emmanuel Macron has revealed a national ecological plan to reduce France’s greenhouse gas emissions by 55% and end the use of fossil fuels by 2030. The President, while speaking after a special ministerial council at the Elysee, said an additional €10bn would be spent in executing the 50-point program.

Other measures that are included in the plan include the speedy production of electric cars, with brakes on gas boilers, new projects for offshore wind farms, and the opening of several electric battery factories in the northern part of the country. Before the end of 2030, the companies that are responsible for 50 of the dirtiest industrial sites in France are expected to sign an agreement to reduce pollution by 45%

President Macron also added that full control of electricity prices would be back with the state by next month.

Source:  The Guardian 
Monday, July 3, 2023 – Kyiv’s domestic intelligence agency confirmed that the authorities had charged former top security officials in Ukraine with treason. The move is aimed at identifying Russia’s spies within.

Oleh Kulinich, the former head of the Security Service of Ukraine’s (SBU) Crimea directorate, was arrested last July on the charges that he required other Russian-friendly operatives on orders from Russia. If Kulinich is convicted, he faces up to 15 years in prison.

The President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, praised the arrest of Kulinich last year and termed it a process of self-purification. The former SBU chief, Ivan Bakanov, was also sacked by Zelenskiy. 

Authorities are also investigating a former head of the SUB’s Department of internal security, Andriy Naumov, who arrived in Serbia last year with a car full of cash and emeralds.

Source: Reuters 
OTTAWA, Sept 21 (Reuters) - Canada and Japan on Thursday agreed to work more closely together to establishing sustainable and reliable global battery supply chains, the Canadian government said in a statement.
The two sides signed a memorandum of cooperation on the supply chains during a visit by Japanese Industry Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura, it said, but gave no details.
Canada, home to a large mining sector for minerals such as lithium, nickel and cobalt, wants to woo firms involved in all levels of the electric vehicle (EV) supply chain via a multibillion-dollar green technology.

"As worldwide demand shifts increasingly towards cleaner forms of energy, Canada's critical minerals resources and battery supply chains will play a vital role in how we get there," said Natural Resources Minister Jonathan Wilkinson.
Earlier this month a unit of South Korea's Solus Advanced Materials said it would will build a copper foil facility in the province of Quebec, producing technology for EV batteries.