Tuesday, May 30, 2023 – A blanket diplomatic immunity has been issued by South Africa to all leaders who will attend an August summit. This means that the President of Russia, Vladimir Putin, might be able to make a trip to Johannesburg without the fear of the country acting on an international criminal court arrest warrant for him.

In August, South Africa will host a summit of Brics groups: Brazil, China, India, Russia, and South Africa. A planning meeting of foreign ministers is expected to take place on Thursday, which will last two days.

On Tuesday, the Department of Foreign Affairs backed the immunity, saying it is a standard conferment of immunities for all international conferences and summits held in South Africa. The department also added that “the immunities are for conferences and not for specific individuals.

Source: The Guardian 
Monday, June 26, 2023 – At least nine people were reportedly killed after Russian air strikes on rebel-held Idlib province, Syria. The United Nations expressed its concerns about the hostilities in the province.

Bombs dropped from warplanes killed nine people next to a market outside Jisr al-Shughour. Two other people were also killed in an air strike near Idlib city. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group has termed the attack the deadliest Russian attack this year.

Russia's military did not comment on the situation immediately. Their air campaign supporting the Syrian government has been crucial in turning the tide of the civil war that has been going on for 12 years. The strikes were said to be a retaliation for attacks that had killed civilians in government-held Hama and Latakia provinces.

Source: BBC
Wednesday, June 28, 2023 – Vast regions of the United States are still experiencing extreme weather, with temperatures in the south and southwest reaching triple digits and smoke pollution plaguing the midwest. The smoke is caused by fires in northern Quebec and low pressure over the eastern Great Lakes. The north wind would blow the smoke further south into southern Illinois, Indiana, and Kentucky.

Officials in Chicago recommended young people, seniors, and individuals with health difficulties spend more time indoors. Daycare and sports centers in the Chicago area informed parents that their children would be kept indoors to keep them safe.

More than 80 million people are under air quality warnings, primarily from the Midwest to the East Coast. While a heat dome has formed over parts of the United States, more than 40 million Americans are under excessive heat notifications.

Source: The Guardian 
Ford Motor Company announced long-term contracts with multiple lithium suppliers last week as the automaker moves to secure the raw materials needed to scale its electric vehicle production.

As Ford aims to produce 600,000 EVs this year and more than 2 million units by 2026, the automaker has spent the last year securing ongoing access to the critical minerals needed for its EV vehicles and batteries.

The company is working to develop a more sustainable North American battery supply chain, which will help “fortify and de-risk our plans for sourcing the key minerals we need to make EVs more accessible for our customers longer-term,” Lisa Drake, Ford’s vice president of EV Industrialization, Model e, said in an Albemarle release.

Ford’s recent lithium supplier agreements
The automaker’s latest lithium supply deals span three countries, with partnerships guaranteed through at least 2034.

In addition to the supplier partnership between Albemarle and Ford, the two companies will also explore options to develop a closed-loop solution for lithium-ion battery recycling.

The automaker has been working to broaden its supplier pool amid worries of limited raw material supply, securing mineral agreements in Asia, South America and North America. In April, Ford added to its trove of suppliers by investing in an Indonesia-based nickel facility. The site is set to open in 2026.

Ford’s growing list of suppliers will help the automaker fulfill its planned capacity additions, especially as the company expands its EV production sites across the U.S. In February, Ford announced a $3.5 billion investment for its first lithium iron phosphate EV battery plant in Michigan.


