Saturday, March 18, 2023 — Despite the ongoing conflict with Russia, Ukraine has signed a deal enabling them to export millions of tons of grains through the Black Sea. However, it is unclear how long the deal will last, as Ukraine is pushing for 120 days, while Russia wants 60 days.

Ukraine is one of the top producers of grain in the world. But has since been denied access to ports in the Black Sea as Russian warships blocked it since the beginning of the conflict. Hours before the deal expires, the President of Turkey, Recep Tayyip, announced the deal's extension on Saturday.

The Ambassador of Russia to the United Nations said on Friday that if the deal is to continue, the EU, U.S., and U.K. should remove any sanctions targeted at the agricultural sector in Russia within two months.

Source: BBC 


Wednesday, March 8, 2023 – According to a study in the "Nature" journal, the smoke from the Australian bushfires in 2019 and 2020 briefly reduced the ozone layer's thickness by 3% to 5% in 2020. Recent research showed that particles in wildfire smoke could trigger chemicals that damage the ozone layer, which raises the possibility that future ozone recovery may be slowed down by more intense and frequent fires.

The lead researcher, Prof Susan Solomon, an atmospheric scientist at MIT in the U.S., said the ozone breakdown by smoke particles was comparable to the Antarctic ozone hole emerging each spring, "but at much warmer temperatures."

The researchers also noted that although the ozone hole often forms over Antarctica due to the region's freezing temperatures, Wildfire aerosols appear capable of boosting ozone losses.

Source: The Guardian 
Saturday, January 14, 2023 — Since the start of December 2022, China has seen a continual large amount of death from the coronavirus infection. The surge began shortly after President Xi lifted the Zero-Covid Policy to allow for the movement of people for upcoming holidays.

The Head of the Bureau of Medical Administration stated in his account of events that most of those who died were over the age of 65 years and had underline conditions, while some of the victims died due to respiratory distress.

The reported death accounted for were those that occurred in the hospitals only, with worries that the actual number of casualties may be higher. This prompted several countries to issue mandatory testing for those coming from China.

Experts believe that the surge in death has peaked in most areas; however, with high travel schedules, the risk may increase significantly. Therefore, people have been advised to limit their visits to certain areas of the country.

Source: The Guardian 
COVINGTON, Ga., March 30, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Ascend Elements celebrated the grand opening of its first commercial-scale lithium-ion battery recycling facility this week. Located in Covington, Georgia, the $50 million Base 1 facility is North America's largest electric vehicle battery recycling facility. As demand for electric vehicles increases, lithium-ion battery recycling is becoming an increasingly important part of the EV battery materials supply chain.

The facility began partial operations in August 2022 and now has an annual capacity to process 30,000 metric tons of used lithium-ion batteries and manufacturing scrap – equal to 70,000 electric vehicle batteries per year.

"This facility is an important part of America's EV battery infrastructure, and this is just the start," said Ascend Elements CEO Mike O'Kronley. "As an industry, we need to continue building our closed-loop battery materials supply chain to make electric vehicle batteries cleaner and more sustainable."

Ascend Elements recovers up to 98% of the critical battery metals in used electric vehicle batteries and gigafactory manufacturing scrap. By recycling used lithium-ion batteries and scrap with its patented Hydro-to-Cathode™ process, Ascend Elements can reduce the carbon footprint of new electric vehicle battery cathode materials by up to 90%.

The ultra-clean and efficient facility is powered by renewable energy and features onsite wastewater recycling and treatment systems. The facility currently employs about 100 team members, and the company plans to increase headcount to 185 by 2024.

ABOUT ASCEND ELEMENTS 

Based in Westborough, Mass., Ascend Elements is the leading provider of sustainable, closed-loop battery material solutions. From EV battery recycling to commercial-scale productions of lithium-ion battery precursor (pCAM) and cathode active materials (CAM), Ascend Elements is revolutionizing the production of sustainable lithium-ion battery materials. Its Hydro-to-Cathode™ direct precursor synthesis technology produces new CAM from spent lithium-ion cells more efficiently than traditional methods, resulting in improved economics and lowered GHG emissions. With fewer batteries going to landfill and a cleaner manufacturing process, Ascend Elements is taking the lithium-ion battery industry to a higher level of sustainability. 

