Friday, December 1, 2023 – Israel launched an attack at targets across Gaza following the end of a seven-day ceasefire on Friday, after the negotiation of the release of more hostages failed overnight. More than 100 Palestinians were killed in the recent attack from Israel.

According to Israel’s military, they confirmed that by lunchtime, they had already attacked 200 targets from land, sea, and air across the north and south of the strip, which include a south city that Israel had ordered civilians to evacuate from, Khan Younis.

Israel confirmed that the reason the truce broke and could not be renewed was because Hamas had failed to release the remaining female hostages in Gaza. According to an Israeli Government spokesperson, Eylon Levy, he said that “Having chosen to hold on to Israeli women, Hamas will now take the mother of all thumping.”

Source: The Guardian 
Wednesday, November 22, 2023 – Both Israel and Hamas announced on Wednesday that they have agreed to a four-day ceasefire. Alongside the ceasefire deal, 50 women and children that are held hostage in Gaza would be released, in return for 150 Palestinian women and children. A senior United States official confirmed the deal, saying that three Americans would be included in the hostages that would be freed.

The President of the United States, Joe Biden, commended the deal and tanked Egypt and Qatar for their critical leadership and partnership in reaching the deal. The foreign ministry of Qatar said that the start time of the deal would be announced in the next 24 hours.

Alongside the deal, Israel also agreed to allow more aid to enter Gaza, which is suffering an acute humanitarian crisis, after being under serious attack for the past seven weeks.

Source: The Guardian
Wednesday, November 8, 2023 – The executive body of the European Union said on Wednesday that detailed negotiations about Ukraine joining the European Union should begin next year, giving a major boost to the country’s ambition. In a report, the Commission said that accession talks should finally start, close to 18 months since the bloc accepted Ukraine as a candidate state.

Ursula von der Leyen, the President of the European Commission while speaking on Wednesday said that “today is a historic day, because the Commission recommends that the Council opens accession negotiation with Ukraine and with Moldova.

The President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, welcomed the Commission’s announcement and said that with the announcement, the history of Ukraine and the whole of Europe has taken the right step. While the decision to begin negotiations with Ukraine is a pivotal step, talks will not begin until certain conditions have been met.

Source: CNN
WASHINGTON, Dec 1 (Reuters) - The Biden administration on Friday issued-long awaited guidance that will limit Chinese content in batteries eligible for electric vehicle tax credits starting next year.
In a win for automakers, the U.S. Treasury will temporarily exempt some trace critical minerals from new strict rules barring materials from China and other countries deemed a "Foreign Entity of Concern." (FEOC)
The new rules, required under an August 2022 law, are designed to wean the U.S. electric vehicle battery chain away from China and are being closely watched by automakers as they make investment decisions on producing batteries for their transition to electric vehicles.
The FEOC rules come into effect in 2024 for completed batteries and 2025 for critical minerals used to produce them.
The Alliance for Automotive Innovation, a group representing nearly all major automakers, said the decision to exempt trace materials for two years "was significant and well-advised" and without it could have made nearly all vehicles ineligible.
Treasury said the few materials being exempted each account for less than 2% of the value of battery critical minerals.
General Motors said on Friday it believes it is "well positioned to maintain the consumer purchase incentive for many of our EVs in 2024 and beyond."
Ford Motor said in October it was awaiting the guidance to determine if its licensing agreement with Chinese battery maker CATL (300750.SZ), opens new tab, as part of the automaker's planned Michigan battery plant, would run afoul of the rules. Biden administration officials would not comment on whether that arrangement is permissible under the rules. Ford declined to comment.
Republican Senator Marco Rubio said the guidance appears to allow the Ford CATL agreement to qualify. He criticized the decision, arguing the administration was putting "EV special interest groups ahead of America's interests."
The Energy Department said a company would be deemed a FEOC if owned or controlled by a named foreign government. Companies will also be ineligible if an entity of concern holds 25% of that entity’s board seats, voting rights, or equity.
Those countries include North Korea, China, Russia and Iran.
The automaker group said "it appears that companies operating in China are considered FEOC. Chinese entities with specific ownership or governance structures might be permitted in certain circumstances."
The rules are expected to further reduce the number of electric vehicles eligible for EV tax credits. The law immediately made any vehicle ineligible if not assembled in North America. Earlier this year, new battery and mineral sourcing requirements took effect with price and buyer income eligibility caps from Jan. 1.
Senator Energy Committee chair Joe Manchin blasted Treasury for allowing some trace critical minerals from China to qualify and vowed to take every opportunity "to reverse this unlawful, shameful proposed rule and protect our energy security."
Treasury said to allow compliant vehicles to qualify until the rules are finalized, it will have an expedited compliance method for automakers with clean supply chains.