Friday, January 13, 2023 — After a long battle, the military of Russia confirmed that it is now in control of the salt-mine town of Soledar. They referred to it as a very important step for its offensive. The military spokesman said that following their victory, Russia could advance their troops to the nearby city of Bakhmut.

However, military analysts have debated the significance of the town for the Russian Military due to its small size. The US-based think tank Institute for the Study of War confirmed they do not believe it would be a strategic place to enable Russia to bring their troops to encircle Bakhmut.

Russia's capture of the city remains to be verified but will be termed a major victory for President Vladimir Putin if they actually have captured the city. The Russian side has not captured a single town in Ukraine since July 2022.

Source: BBC 
Monday, February 6, 2023 – Earthquakes hit the border of Turkiye and Syria, leading to widespread disorder and destruction in the two countries. A first Earthquake of magnitude 7.8 hit south of the East Anatolian fault, which separates the Anatolian plate and the Arabian plate, while a second quake of magnitude 7.5 hit north of the Faultline.

Since the incident, the death toll has continued to rise, with a count of over 12,000 people killed in the disaster. Sources report that the death toll could go much higher because the widespread destruction has led to the delay in emergency services reaching the affected area.

Authorities reported that up to 10 cities were affected in Turkiye. In Syria, Aleppo, which contained more than a million refugees fleeing from war, is one of the most affected cities in Syria.

Criticism has grown as families in some hard-hit communities have complained that the delayed pace of rescue attempts has left them digging for relatives alone.

International support has arrived from major countries as Leaders of both Syria and Turkiye have acknowledged that there was no way to prepare for an earthquake and that they cannot face the disaster alone.

Source: BBC
Friday, January 27, 2023 — Kyiv’s ambassador to France says Ukraine is set to receive more than 300 tanks from Western countries. Vadym Omelchenko said, “as of today, numerous countries have officially confirmed their agreement to deliver 321 heavy tanks to Ukraine.”

Omelchenko arrived at the figure after the United States promised to deliver 31 M1 Abrams tanks, and Germany also agreed to provide 14 Leopard 2 A6s. The interview of Omelchenko came after the United States and North Korea accused its allies of crossing the line by providing tanks for Ukraine.

The sister of the leader of North Korea, Kim Yo Jong, on Friday, accused the US and other western countries of “wrecking the global peace and the regional security, while handling military hardware over to Ukraine in total disregard of Russia’s concern about security.”

It is, however, unclear when the tanks will arrive in Ukraine.

Source: CNN 
The Department of Energy has agreed to loan a Nevada startup $2 billion to support its production of critical battery materials, a staggering sum that illustrates the Biden administration’s determination to domesticate the electric vehicle supply chain.

Redwood Materials will use the money for construction of the first factory in the nation to produce anode copper foil and cathode active materials, two essential components in EV batteries. The company, founded by former Tesla executive JB Straubel, says it will manufacture enough of them to support the production of 1 million electric vehicles per year by 2025. According to the Department of Energy, that would reduce the country’s gasoline consumption by more than 395 million gallons annually and cut carbon dioxide emissions by more than 3.5 million tons. It also would ease automakers’ reliance on battery components made overseas.

“It accomplishes the goals of less reliance on critical minerals from Asia, brings manufacturing and the supply chain to the US, and produces components for electric vehicles, which ultimately reduces greenhouse gas emissions,” Bob Marcum, chief operating officer of the DOE Loan Programs Office, told Grist on Friday. “It’s a very important project and something that we’re very excited about.”

The loan, which the Energy Department agreed to in a conditional commitment announced Thursday, will come from the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program, which supports manufacturing projects that improve vehicle fuel efficiency. 

The Biden administration wants electric vehicles to comprise half of all new car sales 2030. The essential components of electric vehicle batteries are produced almost exclusively in Asia. “We have some catching up to do,” Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm said at an event at Redwood Materials’ Nevada facility on Thursday. “China has dominated every step of the supply chain.” That poses supply chain security risks, drives up the cost of batteries, and creates greenhouse gas emissions in transporting materials around the world.

“Once we realized how systemically important this technology had become to our entire transportation system and our grid, all eyes started sharpening on how to build independence,” said Nathan Iyer, senior associate at the clean energy nonprofit RMI. 

The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, CHIPS & Science Act, and Inflation Reduction Act direct more than $135 billion to the country’s electric vehicle transition, including toward critical minerals sourcing and processing as well as battery manufacturing. 

“They targeted essentially every single part of the manufacturing process,” said Iyer. “What the US is doing is unique, strategic and aggressive.” 

Redwood Materials was founded in 2017 by JB Straubel, the co-founder and former CTO of Tesla. While working on Tesla’s massive Nevada Gigafactory, he realized the U.S. would soon confront a dire challenge sourcing the supplies needed to support the EV transition. “Even eight years ago, it was clear this would be a really big bottleneck for the entire industry as it scaled,” he said at the event on Thursday. 

Redwood Materials will produce the two most important components of an electric vehicle battery: the anode, which contributes to the battery’s charging performance, and the cathode, which contains the battery’s critical metals. Together, they make up almost 80 percent of a battery’s cost. Domesticating their production not only provides a more secure supply stream for the materials, it lowers the cost of battery production, which can make electric vehicles more affordable for consumers.

Last month, Redwood Materials began producing anode copper foil at its Nevada facility, the first time the component has been commercially produced in the U.S. It expects to begin testing on its cathode products later this year. 

Once complete, the Nevada facility will employ about 1,600 full-time workers.

The company is bringing circularity to the battery supply chain. The metals in EV batteries are almost infinitely recyclable, and Redwood Materials has begun recycling them and collecting scrap from factories, lithium-ion batteries from e-bikes, consumer electronics and other sources for use in its anode and cathode components.

While there are not yet enough electric vehicle batteries in circulation to use materials exclusively from recycled sources, the infrastructure Redwood Materials is creating now could eventually support almost completely closed-loop battery manufacturing.

“They’re a little ahead of the recycled material inputs,” said Iyer, “but if they’re successful this will be the cornerstone of the circular economy.”

Eighty battery manufacturing or supply chain companies have announced that they are either reshoring or opening in the United States in the last two years, according to Secretary Granholm. “This is happening because there is now an industrial strategy to make this stuff in America,” she said. “China might be starting to worry.” 