Thursday, October 5, 2023 – According to the EU climate service, September saw the highest global temperatures ever measuring 1.75C, far surpassing the previous record. The temperature this month was 0.5C hotter than the previous record set in 2020 and 0.93C warmer than the average September temperature between 1991 and 2020.

Experts believe that the heat is being caused by both the El Niño weather event and the ongoing emissions of warming gases. A few scientists expressed their surprise at the magnitude of the rise; and that the magnitude of the warming places new pressure on politicians to act as they prepare for the COP28 climate summit at the end of November.

The September result does not violate the 2015 Paris Accord to keep temperatures below 1.5 degrees Celsius since the Paris target relates to decades, not months. However, it is undeniably a concerning trend. Scientists anticipate that this year will remain below the 1.5C limit, but 2023 is "on track" to be the warmest on record.

Source: BBC 
Wednesday, November 8, 2023 – The executive body of the European Union said on Wednesday that detailed negotiations about Ukraine joining the European Union should begin next year, giving a major boost to the country’s ambition. In a report, the Commission said that accession talks should finally start, close to 18 months since the bloc accepted Ukraine as a candidate state.

Ursula von der Leyen, the President of the European Commission while speaking on Wednesday said that “today is a historic day, because the Commission recommends that the Council opens accession negotiation with Ukraine and with Moldova.

The President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, welcomed the Commission’s announcement and said that with the announcement, the history of Ukraine and the whole of Europe has taken the right step. While the decision to begin negotiations with Ukraine is a pivotal step, talks will not begin until certain conditions have been met.

Source: CNN
Thursday, December 21, 2023 – For weeks, Iceland has been bracing for volcanic activity. Since late October, the region surrounding Reykjavik has seen a spike in earthquake activity. On Monday, a volcanic eruption broke out on the Reykjanes peninsula of south-west Iceland, after weeks of threatened earthquake activity.

By Tuesday evening and Wednesday morning, the fumes had reached Reykjavik. Last month, some 4,000 people were evacuated from Grindavik, a fishing village threatened by the lava flow.

Volcanologist Dr Evgenia Ilyinskaya in her expert opinion said, there would not be the same level of disruption as the similar eruption from 2010, as these volcanoes in south-west Iceland were "physically not able to generate the same ash clouds"; nevertheless, the local people had been both fearful and expectant of the volcano to erupt.

Images and videos circulated on social media demonstrate lava erupting from the volcano only an hour after an earthquake swarm was discovered, but the Icelandic foreign minister assured that the event would not disrupt flight plans and activities within the country.

Source: BBC 
Nissan will pump 1.12 billion pounds ($1.4 billion) into its British plant to build electric versions of two models, offering a boost to the country’s auto industry and a UK prime minister desperate to attract foreign investment.

The Japanese automaker said Friday that its plans for electric versions of the Qashqai and Juke, produced in Sunderland in northeast England, would require a total investment of up to £2 billion ($2.5 billion), including a third battery plant in Britain and infrastructure projects that its partners would help to finance.

The project is expected to receive UK government support.

Nissan has made its electric Leaf model in Sunderland for years and will continue to do so, with batteries supplied by a small plant at the site.

In 2021, the company announced a $1.4 billion investment to build a second, 9 gigawatt-hour (GWh) battery plant in Sunderland with Chinese partner Envision AESC.

Friday’s announcement comes just a few days before Prime Minister Rishi Sunak’s Global Investment Summit, when he will try to revive interest among overseas companies, which have cooled on Britain since the Brexit vote in 2016.

“Making the UK the best place to do business is at the heart of our economic plan,” Sunak said in a statement on Friday.

Nissan did not comment on the value of any subsidies or guarantees being provided by Britain.

“Government support is always important,” Nissan’s senior vice president for manufacturing and supply chain Alan Johnson told BBC radio. “Discussions are ongoing with the government, (and are) not concluded.”

Sunak will host Nissan President and chief executive Makoto Uchida at the summit next week.

Nissan’s investment will help support jobs for 7,000 workers in Sunderland and 30,000 people in the supply chain, and builds on a presence in Britain dating back to 1986.

For the Japanese company, Britain is a key hub. Its 2021 battery investment was a show of confidence when other foreign investors were avoiding the UK after Brexit led to years of uncertainty around the country’s trading relationships.

But Sunak, who became prime minister a year ago, is having some success turning that around.

The Nissan deal comes just months after India’s Tata Motors said it would invest £4 billion ($5 billion) in a UK electric vehicle battery plant to supply its Jaguar Land Rover factories.

Industry experts had described the Tata battery plant as good progress, but argue Britain needs much more EV battery production capacity to maintain a viable, growing auto industry.

Nissan plans to offer only fully electric cars in Europe by 2030. It said it would announce the names of the new EV models and timings for production launches at a later date.

The automaker’s latest UK investment comes despite Sunak’s decision in September to delay by five years a ban on sales of new petrol cars.