Wednesday, March 22, 2023 — The International Monetary Fund (IMF) confirmed that a staff-level agreement had been reached with Ukraine on funding worth $15.6bn (£12.8bn). This will be the first loan of the organization to a country at war, and it is expected to be approved in the coming weeks.

An official of the IMF, Gavin Gray, said in a statement that “Russia’s invasion of Ukraine continues to have a devastating impact on the economy. Activity contracted by 30% in 2022, a large share of the capital stock has been destroyed and poverty level has increased.”

The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denys Shmyhal, said the funding would help Ukraine finance all critical expenditures and ensure macroeconomic stability. U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said an IMF program that is appropriately conditioned is critical to underpin Ukraine’s reform effort.

Source: BBC
Tuesday, February 28, 2023 — European Union and the United Kingdom have agreed to new trade rules in Northern Ireland to tackle the problem that has fueled post-Brexit in Europe and Northern Ireland.

While speaking at a press conference in Windsor, U.K. Prime Minister Rishi Sunak said that the new deal, named” Windsor Framework,” will not only deliver smooth-flowing trade within the United Kingdom, it will also protect Northern Ireland’s place in the U.K. and safeguard the sovereignty of Northern Ireland. 

The President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, acknowledged that the relationship between the U.K. and EU has been tense since Brexit and said new solutions were required for the two parties to utilize their partnership. The leaders showed three essential areas that would be improved in the protocol due to the new deal.

Source: CNN 
Tuesday, March 14, 2023 – A United States drone has crashed into the black sea following an encounter with a Russian fighter jet. The United States military confirmed that the fighter jet damaged the propeller of the American MQ-9 Reaper drone.

Commander of the U.S. Air Force Europe and Air Force Africa, Air Force Gen. James B. Hecker, said in a statement that the “MQ-9 aircraft was conducting routine operations in international airspace when it was intercepted and hit by a Russian aircraft, which resulted in a crash and complete loss of the MQ-9.”

Anatoly Antonov, the Ambassador of Russia to the United States after he was summoned to the State Department following the drone incident, said Russia does not want any confrontation with the United States.

The National Security Council communications coordinator said he is unsure whether or not the U.S. will recover the drone.

Source: CNN 
With critical minerals such as graphite and lithium becoming increasingly sparse and expensive, Honda is among the automakers turning to recyclers to fill the supply gap. Battery material recyclers and manufacturers, meanwhile, are working to ramp up their operations to meet the demand. 

Ascend Elements is currently in the process of building a $1 billion battery materials recycling facility in Hopkinsville, Kentucky, which will produce enough EV battery material annually to power more than 250,000 electric vehicles. 

Others in the sector are also scaling up and forming high-profile partnerships. 

In December, battery recycler Redwood Materials announced it would spend $3.5 billion on a new battery materials facility in Charleston, South Carolina. And in September, GM signed an agreement with Lithion Recycling to use the company’s advanced battery recycling technology.

Ascend Elements’ deal with Honda is also an example of the growing push among EV makers to create “closed loop” battery supply chains. Such systems aim to limit the amount of wasted critical materials by reclaiming battery parts.

Honda is striving to reach carbon neutrality throughout the product life cycle by 2050, as part of a broader sustainability plan, which includes 100% use of sustainable materials and 100% utilization of carbon-free electricity. The company is also in the midst of building an EV battery plant in Ohio, as it targets having EVs represent 100% of its vehicle sales in North America by 2040. 