Monday, June 26, 2023 – At least nine people were reportedly killed after Russian air strikes on rebel-held Idlib province, Syria. The United Nations expressed its concerns about the hostilities in the province.

Bombs dropped from warplanes killed nine people next to a market outside Jisr al-Shughour. Two other people were also killed in an air strike near Idlib city. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group has termed the attack the deadliest Russian attack this year.

Russia's military did not comment on the situation immediately. Their air campaign supporting the Syrian government has been crucial in turning the tide of the civil war that has been going on for 12 years. The strikes were said to be a retaliation for attacks that had killed civilians in government-held Hama and Latakia provinces.

Source: BBC
Thursday, June 15, 2023 – Global temperatures surged to record-high levels this month, a worrying indicator of the impending climate crisis. Global average temperatures for June are roughly 1C higher than averages for the same month going back to 1979. 

Although the month is not yet over and may not break the June record, according to climate scientists, it continues a trend of intensifying global warming that may make this year the warmest on record, surpassing 2016. This year, from Puerto Rico to Siberia to Spain, has already seen catastrophic, record heatwaves wreak havoc, and last week, poisonous smoke from massive wildfires in Canada obscured the skies above New York City and Washington.

While individuals are experiencing the heat on land, the seas are experiencing an even more extraordinary surge of warmth, with a second straight month of record-high ocean surface temperatures. This affects overall world temperatures, warps fish populations, bleaches coral reefs and causes sea level rise along the shore.

Source: The Guardian 
Wednesday, June 28, 2023 – Vast regions of the United States are still experiencing extreme weather, with temperatures in the south and southwest reaching triple digits and smoke pollution plaguing the midwest. The smoke is caused by fires in northern Quebec and low pressure over the eastern Great Lakes. The north wind would blow the smoke further south into southern Illinois, Indiana, and Kentucky.

Officials in Chicago recommended young people, seniors, and individuals with health difficulties spend more time indoors. Daycare and sports centers in the Chicago area informed parents that their children would be kept indoors to keep them safe.

More than 80 million people are under air quality warnings, primarily from the Midwest to the East Coast. While a heat dome has formed over parts of the United States, more than 40 million Americans are under excessive heat notifications.

Source: The Guardian 
With the federal government incentivizing the expansion of domestic electric-vehicle battery manufacturing, a new Cornell study examines the long-term energy and sustainability prospects of U.S. production, and highlights policy approaches for building a more resilient battery supply chain.

EV batteries are mostly manufactured overseas, and many policy makers want to move more production to the U.S. – a practice known as reshoring – to reduce dependence on foreign imports and unpredictable global supply chains. But reshoring will also have an effect on the country’s renewable energy transition and climate goals.

A study published on June 14 in Science Advances provides one of the most comprehensive energy and environmental analyses of reshoring lithium-ion EV batteries, considering the whole life cycle, including raw material acquisition, component production, manufacturing, distribution and transportation.

The study found that reshoring could reduce the overall carbon footprint of U.S. EV batteries and the energy needed to produce them, but the benefits can swing dramatically based on factors such as advances in technology, supply chain restructuring, and electric vehicle adoption.

“For example, utilizing recycled aluminum and nickel can reduce the carbon footprint by up to 26% for the pre-pandemic U.S. electric vehicle fleet,” said the study’s co-lead author, Fengqi You, the Roxanne E. and Michael Zak Professor of Energy Systems Engineering and a senior faculty fellow at the Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability. “This study highlights the importance of data science and sustainability analytics in informing future policy on energy, climate, manufacturing and the environment.”

The study also examined energy and sustainability prospects of an ally-shoring strategy, in which production capacities for refined metals and battery components are reallocated to Japan, South Korean and European Union countries.

Findings from the study include:

Increasing the shares of onshoring and ally production in the future U.S. EV battery supply chain could reduce the carbon footprint by up to 27% compared to the current supply chain configuration.
Increasing the shares of renewable energy in the power grid and reducing the reliance on hard coal and lignite-fired electricity would enhance the environmental sustainability of EV batteries.
A strategic integration of battery technology advancement and supply chain restructuring can result in a 54% improvement in climate change mitigation benefits.
While reshoring could reduce ecotoxicity and fine particulate matter formation by over 30% from secondary nickel supply, there is a decrease in environmental performances in ozone formation, ozone depletion and ionizing radiation due to increasing overseas transportation distance for materials.
“The type of advanced modeling and systems analysis offered by this study is essential for considering the environmental tradeoffs in how lithium-ion batteries are built,” said study co-author Apoorv Lal, a graduate student in You’s Process-Energy-Environmental Systems Engineering Lab, “and for securing a resilient midstream and downstream value chain for the U.S. amidst uncertain markets and evolving battery technologies.”