Sunday, February 19, 2023 — Joint Chiefs of South Korea confirm that North Korea has fired a ballistic missile toward the sea of its east coast, after Pyongyang warned of a strong response to the U.S.-South Korea military drills coming up. Japan’s coastguard confirms that North Korea launched what could be described as a ballistic missile.

North Korea has also confirmed that it launched a Hwasong-15 billion intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) just a day before a sudden launching drill for a mobile counterattack against hostile forces. South Korea Military said it detected the missile at 5:22 p.m.

South Korean defense ministry said the nuclear drills between the U.S. and South Korea, referred to as the deterrence strategy committee tabletop exercise, are scheduled for Wednesday at the Pentagon, which will involve senior defense policymakers from both parties.

Source: The Guardian 
Monday, February 6, 2023 - Sources from Palestine and Israel confirm that multiple Palestinian militants were killed in a raid conducted by the Israeli army close to Jericho. The death toll is yet to be confirmed, but it is believed to be 5.

The Israel Défense Force (IDF) said the aim of the operation was to arrest a “Hamas terrorist cell”, which was responsible for the gun attack on a restaurant close to a Jewish settlement near Jericho.

Witnesses confirmed that they heard multiple gunfires during the incident in the Aqabat Jabr refugee camp. The spokesperson of the Israeli Defence Force, Ran Kochav, said the soldiers had neutralized the terrorist. He added that some of the terrorists neutralized were involved in the attack on the restaurant.

Jihad Abu al-Assal, the Governor of Jericho, said that, with the five people that the IDF killed, 8 people have also been arrested.

Source: BBC 
Friday, January 6, 2023 – Not less than 24 people were killed when the Mexican authorities tried to apprehend the son of Mexican drug kingpin “El Chapo.” Ovidio Guzman-Lopez, son of El Chapo and 32 years old and the leader of the father’s former cartel, was flown to Mexico City after being captured in Culiacan.

10 military officers and 19 suspects were killed during his arrest. The Minister for Défense, Luis Cresencio Sandoval, said 35 other military officers we wounded and 21 suspects we also arrested.

Mr. Sandoval said the United States was part of the six-month surveillance operation to capture Mr. Guzman-Lopez. The operation sparked a lot of violence from the cartel members, from burning vehicles to hitting at least 2 planes with gunfire.

A Mexico federal Judge, however, blocked any extradition process against him.

Source: BBC 
近日，宁德时代与电池储能项目开发公司HGP达成450MWh电池储能项目供货协议。双方还将建立长期合作伙伴关系，推动高达5GWh公用事业级和分布式储能项目的落地，以满足美国德克萨斯州对可再生能源能源日益增长的需求。



该450MWh电池储能项目将部署在德克萨斯州，预计2024年开始商业运营。宁德时代将为HGP提供户外预制舱系统EnerC，该产品具有高安全、长寿命和高集成的特点。EnerC兼具IP55防护等级和C5防腐等级，能够适应各种极端天气。得益于宁德时代的一体化液冷系统，项目的安全可靠运行将得到进一步保障。



此次合作充分发挥了宁德时代在先进电池技术和HGP在能源基础设施及储能资源开发方面的专业优势，将为市场提供更加便捷的解决方案，满足德克萨斯州和北美对清洁能源日益增长的需求，充分彰显双方对实现可持续发展的坚定承诺。



HGP是一家领先的能源基础设施和储能资源开发商，总部位于美国德克萨斯州达拉斯市，拥有数十年部署电网投资级储能资产的市场经验。s