Friday, February 24, 2023 — China has urged the G20 nations to conduct a fair, objective, and in-depth analysis of the possible causes of the global debt issues and to tackle the problem comprehensively and effectively. Minister for finance in China, Liu Kun, joined a video meeting of the bloc’s finance ministers and central bank chiefs in Bengaluru and India.

According to the statement released by the Chinese finance ministry, Liu said that to resolve debt issues, international financial institutions and commercial creditors should go along with the principle of joint actions.

Officials from the IMF, the World Bank, and G7 nations will convene on Saturday for the first face-to-face discussions of the new IMF Global Sovereign Debt Roundtable.

Officials from Zambia and Ghana await assurance from China regarding debt-restructuring support.

Source: Reuters 
Tuesday, March 14, 2023 – The details of the United Kingdom, United States, and Australia’s plan to create a new fleet of nuclear-powered submarines have been unveiled, aimed at countering China's influence in the Indo-Pacific region. Under the AUKUS pact, the United States will provide Australia with its first-ever nuclear-power subs.

President of the United States, Joe Biden, said the deal aims to bring peace to the region. He also emphasized that the subs would be nuclear-powered and not nuclear-armed.

The deal is a major upgrade to the Australian military, with them being just the second country after the United Kingdom to receive Washington’s elite nuclear propulsion technology. The sailors in the Australian navy will be sent to U.S. and U.K. submarine bases to receive training on how to use the nuclear-powered submarines.

Source: BBC
Tuesday, February 28, 2023 — European Union and the United Kingdom have agreed to new trade rules in Northern Ireland to tackle the problem that has fueled post-Brexit in Europe and Northern Ireland.

While speaking at a press conference in Windsor, U.K. Prime Minister Rishi Sunak said that the new deal, named” Windsor Framework,” will not only deliver smooth-flowing trade within the United Kingdom, it will also protect Northern Ireland’s place in the U.K. and safeguard the sovereignty of Northern Ireland. 

The President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, acknowledged that the relationship between the U.K. and EU has been tense since Brexit and said new solutions were required for the two parties to utilize their partnership. The leaders showed three essential areas that would be improved in the protocol due to the new deal.

Source: CNN 
Chinese manufacturers and tech companies are playing an increasing role as the U.S. supply chain for electric vehicles and batteries grows to satisfy demand.

Why it matters: More supply chain investments mean more EVs, which advocates say are critical to making transportation sustainable.

But domestic manufacturing proponents and some Republican lawmakers have expressed wariness about Chinese companies seizing too much control of a vital and growing market.
State of play: Chinese companies are expanding their presence in several areas of the U.S. EV space:

Ford on Monday announced it's building a $3.5 billion plant in Michigan that will build batteries using technology from China's Contemporary Amperex Technology Co., Limited (CATL).
Foxconn, which makes the iPhone in China for Apple, is now building electric pickups in Ohio after forming a joint venture last year with Lordstown Motors.
China EV maker BYD is considering building a battery plant in the U.S., Bloomberg reported.
The intrigue: Virginia Gov. Glenn Youngkin, a Republican, last month withdrew his state's bid for Ford’s venture with CATL, describing the planned project as a "Trojan horse" for the Communist Party of China, Axios' Joann Muller writes.

Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, a Democrat, applauded the "generational investment by an American icon [that] will uplift local families, small businesses, and the entire community and help our state continue leading the future of mobility and electrification."
Be smart: For vehicles to qualify for EV tax credits under the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), they need to be assembled with components made in the U.S. — a stiff standard that many vehicles can't currently meet.

Because Ford will own 100% of the new Michigan factory, it hopes to take advantage of lucrative tax credits.
"As IRA implementation continues, scrutiny of Chinese involvement in facilities receiving subsidies will only increase, driven by a mix of sincere and cynical China concerns from both parties," Evercore ISI analyst Tobin Marcus writes.
What we're watching: Whether a Chinese automaker goes beyond manufacturing in the U.S., becoming the first to sell vehicles here.

Chinese automotive executives have been claiming for years that they'll bring their cars to the U.S., but it hasn't happened yet.