Monday, February 6, 2023 – Earthquakes hit the border of Turkiye and Syria, leading to widespread disorder and destruction in the two countries. A first Earthquake of magnitude 7.8 hit south of the East Anatolian fault, which separates the Anatolian plate and the Arabian plate, while a second quake of magnitude 7.5 hit north of the Faultline.

Since the incident, the death toll has continued to rise, with a count of over 12,000 people killed in the disaster. Sources report that the death toll could go much higher because the widespread destruction has led to the delay in emergency services reaching the affected area.

Authorities reported that up to 10 cities were affected in Turkiye. In Syria, Aleppo, which contained more than a million refugees fleeing from war, is one of the most affected cities in Syria.

Criticism has grown as families in some hard-hit communities have complained that the delayed pace of rescue attempts has left them digging for relatives alone.

International support has arrived from major countries as Leaders of both Syria and Turkiye have acknowledged that there was no way to prepare for an earthquake and that they cannot face the disaster alone.

Source: BBC
Friday, January 13, 2023 — After a long battle, the military of Russia confirmed that it is now in control of the salt-mine town of Soledar. They referred to it as a very important step for its offensive. The military spokesman said that following their victory, Russia could advance their troops to the nearby city of Bakhmut.

However, military analysts have debated the significance of the town for the Russian Military due to its small size. The US-based think tank Institute for the Study of War confirmed they do not believe it would be a strategic place to enable Russia to bring their troops to encircle Bakhmut.

Russia's capture of the city remains to be verified but will be termed a major victory for President Vladimir Putin if they actually have captured the city. The Russian side has not captured a single town in Ukraine since July 2022.

Source: BBC 
Monday, March 27, 2023 — The ministry of defense in Germany confirms that Germany has sent Ukraine the first shipment of Leopard 2 tanks. German Minister for Defence, Boris Pistorius, expressed his certainty that the tanks were making a decisive contribution on the frontlines of the war for Ukraine. The United Kingdom has also sent its Challenger 2 tanks to Ukraine.

There has been no comment from the Ukrainian government yet about the arrival of the Leopard 2s, but there has been confirmation for the arrival of the first UK-made Challenger 2 tanks.

The German army has trained Ukrainian soldiers to use the advanced A6 variant of the Leopard 2 over the past several weeks. In addition to the Leopard 2, Ukraine also received two specialist tank-recovery vehicles from Germany and 40 Marder infantry fighting vehicles.

Source: BBC 
With critical minerals such as graphite and lithium becoming increasingly sparse and expensive, Honda is among the automakers turning to recyclers to fill the supply gap. Battery material recyclers and manufacturers, meanwhile, are working to ramp up their operations to meet the demand. 

Ascend Elements is currently in the process of building a $1 billion battery materials recycling facility in Hopkinsville, Kentucky, which will produce enough EV battery material annually to power more than 250,000 electric vehicles. 

Others in the sector are also scaling up and forming high-profile partnerships. 

In December, battery recycler Redwood Materials announced it would spend $3.5 billion on a new battery materials facility in Charleston, South Carolina. And in September, GM signed an agreement with Lithion Recycling to use the company’s advanced battery recycling technology.

Ascend Elements’ deal with Honda is also an example of the growing push among EV makers to create “closed loop” battery supply chains. Such systems aim to limit the amount of wasted critical materials by reclaiming battery parts.

Honda is striving to reach carbon neutrality throughout the product life cycle by 2050, as part of a broader sustainability plan, which includes 100% use of sustainable materials and 100% utilization of carbon-free electricity. The company is also in the midst of building an EV battery plant in Ohio, as it targets having EVs represent 100% of its vehicle sales in North America by 2040. 