Wednesday, November 22, 2023 – Both Israel and Hamas announced on Wednesday that they have agreed to a four-day ceasefire. Alongside the ceasefire deal, 50 women and children that are held hostage in Gaza would be released, in return for 150 Palestinian women and children. A senior United States official confirmed the deal, saying that three Americans would be included in the hostages that would be freed.

The President of the United States, Joe Biden, commended the deal and tanked Egypt and Qatar for their critical leadership and partnership in reaching the deal. The foreign ministry of Qatar said that the start time of the deal would be announced in the next 24 hours.

Alongside the deal, Israel also agreed to allow more aid to enter Gaza, which is suffering an acute humanitarian crisis, after being under serious attack for the past seven weeks.

Source: The Guardian
Wednesday, October 25, 2023 – The World Bank confirmed on Wednesday that its board has approved a $1 billion loan to help South Africa reform its energy sector, as they try to overcome regular power cuts that have curbed economic growth.

South Africa’s World Bank director, Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly had earlier said last month that the loan was under discussion and could come soon. He also added that the “reform that was launched by the government would benefit people of South Africa, especially the most vulnerable households, the economy, the environment and also advance the energy transition.”

The World Bank also confirmed that its Development Policy Loan would contribute to a gradual reduction in water and air pollution by reducing how much they rely on coal for power generation.

The government of South Africa promises to split Eskom into three subsidiaries, transmission, generation, and distribution.

Source: Reuters
Saturday, October 21, 2023 – After almost a week of negotiations between the United States, Israel, Egypt and the United Nations, the Rafah crossing point between Egypt and Gaza has been opened. The opening will allow 20 Egyptian trucks containing medical supplies to cross into the territory.

According to the agreement, only 20 trucks will be permitted to enter on Saturday, and a UN official said trucks from the UN will not be expected to cross until Monday.

The government of Israel said that they want proof that the aid deliveries are not seized or diverted by Hamas before they can authorize any further deliveries. An official of the United Nations said that the verification procedures are still under discussion. The director general of the World Health Organization confirmed that the medical supplies that are being sent to Gaza include trauma and chronic disease medicine.

Source: The Guardian 
WASHINGTON, Nov 12 (Reuters) - The United States and Indonesia on Monday will discuss how to advance a potential minerals partnership aimed a stimulating trade of the electric vehicle (EV) battery metal nickel, according to three people with direct knowledge of the conversations.
Next steps that could move the countries toward formal negotiations on the partnership will be discussed when Indonesian President Joko Widodo visits the White House for a meeting with U.S. President Joe Biden on Monday, according to one of the people.

The Biden administration is still concerned about environmental, social and governance standards in Indonesia and is examining how a deal might work, the sources said. The administration also plans further consultations with U.S. lawmakers and labor groups in the coming weeks, one of the sources said.
"There's a lot of work to do before we are able to formally announce negotiations on a critical minerals partnership," the person said.
The White House did not respond to a request for comment.
Indonesia, which has the world's biggest nickel ore reserves, in September asked the United States to begin discussions for a trade deal for critical minerals so that exports from the Southeast Asian country can be covered under the U.S. Inflation Reduction Act (IRA).
Most of Indonesia's nickel is processed into crude metal but the government is keen to develop an EV supply chain to use the vast reserves of nickel, which can be processed into battery materials.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
The Biden administration discussions, which include U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai as well as the White House, focus on making sure that any potential nickel supply be produced with as little environmental impact as possible, according to one of the sources, who directly advised the administration and was not authorized to speak publicly.
"The overall momentum is promising, but (we) don't want to minimize the fact that there is a fair amount of work to be done here," one of the people said.
Indonesia's nickel supplies are the world's largest and nickel mining there has been blamed for heavy deforestation and water pollution.
Under guidelines for the U.S. law issued in March, Washington has required that a certain amount of critical minerals in EV batteries be produced or assembled in North America or a free trade partner, for EVs sold in the United States to be eligible for tax credits. Indonesia does not have a free trade agreement with the United States.
The Biden administration is also discussing ways to carve out any nickel that is extracted from Indonesia but processed in China from receiving the IRA credits, one of the sources added.
One estimate puts the global market value for the nickel industry at $33.5 billion in 2022, though the market is over-supplied.
The only U.S. nickel mine is set to close in a few years, and the country has no nickel smelter, a risk to Biden's goal for the United States to lead in EV manufacturing.
The government last year gave nearly $115 million to Talon Metals (TLO.TO), opens new tab, to partially fund a nickel processing plant in North Dakota that will supply Tesla Inc (TSLA.O), opens new tab.
Talon is seeking permits for its proposed Minnesota nickel mine, but has faced opposition from Indigenous people. Many U.S. miners have said that the Biden administration should focus more on approving domestic projects than seeking international supply.