Monday, August 7, 2023 – The Ukrainian Security Service (SBU) confirmed the arrest of an alleged Russian informant connected to a plot to assassinate the president of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky. According to the SBU, the woman is from the southern Ukrainian region of Mykolaiv. However, her name has not been revealed.

According to the SBU, The suspect has been gathering information concerning President Zelensky’s planned visit to Mykolaiv at the end of July to plan a Russian strike to kill the President. SBU, however, managed to get information about the suspect's activities and adopted security measures to foil the plot.

After an investigation, the suspect was found to be a resident of Ochakov in the Mykolaiv region and a former saleswoman in a military store. SBU, you said they caught the woman as she was trying to pass information to the invaders.

Source: CNN 
Saturday, August 5, 2023 – The former Prime Minister of Pakistan, Imran Khan, has been sentenced to three years in prison over corruption allegations. He was found guilty of not declaring the money he earned from selling gifts he received while he was in office.

Mr. Khan, a former cricket player before becoming a politician, was elected into office in 2018. He was, however, ousted last year with a vote of no confidence after falling out with Pakistan’s military.

Judge Humayun Dilawar wrote in his ruling that the dishonesty of the former Prime Minister had been established beyond doubt. The judge confirmed that the police had been instructed to immediately arrest Mr Khan.

The lawyer of Imran Khan, Intazar Hussain Panjutha, condemned the trial, saying the accused was not allowed to defend himself.

Source: BBC 


Wednesday, July 5, 2023 – The last few years have been a delicate period of serious conversations about climate change. Until the beginning of this week, the hottest day on record occurred in 2016, during the previous El Nio global weather event, when the worldwide average temperature reached 16.92 degrees Celsius. The El Niño, Phenomenon was confirmed to have returned by experts and, with it, high daily temperatures.

The 2016 record was broken for two consecutive days, with Tuesday, July 4, being the highest-ever daily temperature in recorded history. According to data compiled by the U.S. National Centres for Environmental Prediction (NCEP), the average global air temperature was 17.18°C on Tuesday, breaking the previous record of 17.01°C set on Monday.

July may be the warmest month ever, and more record-breaking temperatures may be recorded before the end of the month. Regions of the world are experiencing scorching temperatures; with an average of 35°C in parts of China, 50°C in North Africa, and 8.7°C in Antarctica.

Source: The Guardian 
Improvements in the energy density of electric-vehicles batteries have been driven by advancements in cathodes over the past decade. The next incremental gains in performance and cost are expected to come from emerging technologies in other components, including next-generation anodes, solid-state batteries and sodium-ion cells.

Aside from the technical advantages of certain materials, which include providing longer ranges and faster charging capabilities — hopefully at a lower cost — the move toward new battery materials is emerging as companies and countries grapple with the reality of just how much extraction will be required to make the clean transition.

The history of cathode innovation tells us that shifting away from materials that have more vulnerable supply chains is possible, and in fact, it enabled the move to lower cobalt content and toward chemistries with higher nickel content. The rate at which other emerging technology innovations are adopted could have a significant impact on demand for key raw materials like graphite and lithium.

In its latest electric vehicle outlook, BloombergNEF updated its battery chemistry forecasts, which now include sodium-ion batteries accounting for 3% of passenger car market battery demand in 2035 and 30% of battery demand in the two- and three-wheeler segment.

Those sodium-ion batteries, which don’t use lithium, could help displace up to 7% of lithium demand in 2035. While that percentage seems small, it equates to more than half of all the lithium demand last year.

The rush to secure lithium resources in South America and Africa is just beginning, and any technology that can help offset or alleviate some of the demand will be in favor when (not if) there are supply crunches.

In an even more aggressive scenario, where sodium-ion batteries are used in all small vehicles, lithium displacement gets to 37% by 2035. This may be required if lithium supply cannot meet the significant ramp-up in demand, especially if the amount in batteries increases with the use of lithium-metal anodes enabled through solid-state electrolytes.

However, this scenario would require a rapid supply chain and manufacturing expansion, with sodium-ion cells in 2035 being more than twice the volume of lithium-ion in 2023, a scale that has taken decades to reach.

On the anode side, BNEF expects technologies that lean on silicon, lithium and hard carbon to start entering the battery market this decade, and estimates they could displace 46% of graphite demand in 2035 compared to a scenario in which the market doesn’t shift away from graphite.

Silicon-based anode materials can have an impressive specific capacity up to 4,000 milliampere-hours per gram, over 10 times higher than natural and artificial graphite. Challenges associated with silicon, such as volumetric changes during cycling, are being addressed by reducing particle size and adding conductive materials and pre-lithiation treatments.

The other exciting contender for anodes is lithium-metal, which have higher theoretical specific capacity than both silicon-based anodes and graphite. These anodes, which have to be paired with more advanced electrolytes, such as hybrid or solid-state electrolytes, would add to the lithium supply dilemma, in that they would create more demand.

Lithium-metal anodes could account for 22% of the anode chemistry mix for electric vehicles by 2035, based on BloombergNEF’s analysis. That would represent about a quarter of total lithium demand that year.


