Wednesday, April 12, 2023 — Japan has announced plans to develop long-range missiles due to increased tension with China. The Ministry of Defense in Japan has signed contracts with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (MHI). The deal involves the development and mass production of the weapons under a plan that extends to 2027. The deals are said to be worth more than $2.8 billion.

Under the new deal, MHI will begin mass production of two types of missiles already developed this year. The two missiles are ground-launched Type 12 guided missiles, designed to target ships at sea, and hypersonic glide missiles, designed for island defense.

MHI, at the same time, is expected to begin the development of submarine-launched missiles, which could be launched by the Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force’s fleet of conventionally powered boats. 

Source: CNN
Wednesday, May 10, 2023 — According to official media, at least 21 people have perished in wildfires in Russia's Ural highlands. Russia has witnessed a lot of forest fires in recent years, which experts attribute to arid summers and high temperatures.

In the past few days, wildfires raged in the Kurgan area of the Urals and in Siberia. According to local media, the majority of those killed were elderly persons who were unable to leave their houses. According to local officials, many of the deaths happened on Sunday in the village of Yuldus, in Kurgan province, on the border between the Urals and Siberia.

Regional emergency authorities warned that the death toll might rise. In Kurgan province, where over 5,000 structures have burnt down, a state of emergency has been declared. Fires have also consumed thousands of hectares in Sverdlovsk province and parts of Siberia's Omsk and Tyumen regions.

Sources: The Guardian 
Sunday, April 23, 2023 – The agriculture ministers of the Group of Seven (G7) economic powers called for the extension, expansion, and full implementation of a critical deal to export Ukrainian grain through the Black Sea.

The deal, which United Nations and Turkey brokered, was signed in Istanbul last July, allowing Ukraine to have more than 27 million tons of grains exported from several of its Black Sea ports.

After a two-day meeting in Miyazaki, Japan, the G7 agricultural ministers in the communique recognized the importance of the continuation and full implementation of the grain Black Sea Grain Initiative (BSGI). A meeting is scheduled this week between the Russian Foreign Minister and U.N. Secretary-General to discuss the Ukrainian Black Sea export deal.

The G7 members are prepared to support the recovery and reconstruction of Ukraine, which includes providing expertise in the de-mining of agricultural land and the reconstruction of agricultural infrastructure.

Source: Reuters
The carmaker’s battery assembly plant in South Carolina will be key to reducing logistics costs and risks in EV production.

When BMW Group starts production in 2026 at a new battery assembly plant in Woodruff, South Carolina, where executives broke ground this week, the plant will be an important hub in an integrated, localised supply chain for electric vehicle production for the carmaker globally.