Monday, September 25, 2023 – The President of France, Emmanuel Macron has revealed a national ecological plan to reduce France’s greenhouse gas emissions by 55% and end the use of fossil fuels by 2030. The President, while speaking after a special ministerial council at the Elysee, said an additional €10bn would be spent in executing the 50-point program.

Other measures that are included in the plan include the speedy production of electric cars, with brakes on gas boilers, new projects for offshore wind farms, and the opening of several electric battery factories in the northern part of the country. Before the end of 2030, the companies that are responsible for 50 of the dirtiest industrial sites in France are expected to sign an agreement to reduce pollution by 45%

President Macron also added that full control of electricity prices would be back with the state by next month.

Source:  The Guardian 
Saturday, July 15, 2023 – South Korean President Yoon Suk-Yeol has promised to increase his country's humanitarian and non-lethal military assistance to Ukraine. This decision comes after a summit with the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskiy. Being the world’s ninth-largest arms exporter, South Korea has a longstanding policy not to supply lethal weapons to an active conflict zone.

President Yoon and his wife, Kim Keon-Hee, traveled to Ukraine after visiting Lithuania for a NATO summit. It is the first visit Yoon has made to Ukraine since Russia invaded the country almost 17 months ago. The humanitarian aid would also be increased to $150m in 2023.

During a joint briefing, President Zelenskiy appreciated the South Korean President's encouraging words and firm support. He also praised the transfer of vehicles and demining equipment to Ukraine.

Source: The Guardian 
Sunday, July 16, 2023 – The economy of China has expanded in the second quarter by 6.3% from last year because of a low base. According to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) data, gross domestic product, compared to the first quarter, grew just 0.8% from April to June.

Lockdown as a result of COVID-19 affected the world’s second-largest economy last year, including the financial hub of Shanghai. After lifting the lockdown restriction, the economy strongly rebounded, with GDP growth of 4.5%.

In June, industrial output expanded by 4.4%, and fixed asset investment rose 3.8%during the same month. A new record high was set regarding youth employment, with the jobless rate for those ages 16 to 24 reaching 21.34% in June, which surpassed the previous record of 20.8% that was set in May. 

Source: CNN
As automakers look to reduce their reliance on critical raw materials such as cobalt, lithium and nickel, investments into EV battery recycling efforts have grown. In addition to the most recent funding, Redwood Materials previously received a $2 billion loan commitment from the Department of Energy to expand its battery materials recycling capacity to support the growing EV market. 

“We believe the Redwood team is well-positioned to become a leader in the battery materials industry,” Sebastien Gagnon, managing director in private equity at Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said in a statement. 

Redwood was founded by former Tesla co-founder and chief technology officer J.B. Straubel, who still serves on the automaker’s board of directors. The company aims to create a circular supply chain in the U.S. by recovering critical raw materials from electric vehicle batteries at their end-of-life. In the future, these types of recycling efforts could reduce the costs of producing new batteries, which was roughly $153/kWh in 2022, according to DOE. 

Redwood’s recycling efforts may also help automakers reduce their dependence on critical raw materials, including lithium, nickel, cobalt, copper and graphite. These materials account for nearly 80% of the materials cost of producing lithium-ion batteries for EVs. 

Most cathode and anode materials are not produced in North America, according to Redwood. Without sufficient U.S. production, domestic battery cell manufacturers may offshore over $150 billion in economic value for anode and cathode components by 2030, according to Redwood. 

Redwood says it can recover roughly 95% of nickel, cobalt, lithium and copper from end-of-life EV batteries, which can be used to manufacture cathode and anode materials for new batteries. 

As EV sales increase, more vehicle batteries will reach the end of their service life, requiring alternative recycling solutions to prevent them from being discarded in landfills, according to a July report from Guidehouse Insights.

In February 2022, Ford and Volvo signed an agreement with Redwood Materials to recycle end-of-life battery packs from hybrid and electric vehicles in California.

Redwood aims to produce 100 GWh of cathode and anode components per year by 2025, which is enough to manufacture battery cells for around 1 million EVs annually. The company is targeting 500 GWh a year — enough for five million EVs —  by 2030.

Tesla’s battery supplier, Panasonic, plans to use recycled cathode materials supplied by Redwood to produce batteries at its new factory in Kansas, which is slated to begin production in 2025. It will be the first time recycled materials will be integrated into large-scale battery cell manufacturing in the U.S., according to Redwood.