Tuesday, April 18, 2023 – Kremlin confirms that the President of Russia, Vladimir Putin, visited part of Ukraine’s southern Kherson region controlled by Russia. He also visited the Luhansk region in Ukraine. Russia claimed to have annexed both regions, but they did not have full control.

While speaking with the military, Mr. Putin told them that although he doesn’t want to distract them from their duties, he feels “it is important for him to hear their opinion on how the situation is developing, to listen to them and to exchange information.”

In response to the reports of the visit of Mr Putin, an adviser to the office of Mr. Zelensky, Mykhailo Podolyak, tweeted that the Russian leader was touring the occupied and ruined territories of Ukraine to enjoy the crimes that his military had committed.

Source: BBC 
Friday, June 9, 2023 – Saudi Arabia’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement that the United States and Saudi Arabia had announced a ceasefire between the Sudanese Armed Forces and the Rapid Support Forces. The ceasefire is expected to start on Saturday and last for 24 hours.

The statement said, “Saudi and the US join the people of Sudan in their frustration over the non-commitment of the previous truces.” The statement also said that the two warring factions had agreed to allow the movement of humanitarian aid all across Sudan.

The foreign ministry of Sudan, which backs the armed forces of the country, on Thursday, notified the United Nations that the special representative of the United Nation’s Secretary-General in Sudan, Volker Perthes, had been declared “persona non grata.”

Source: CNN 
Monday, May 8, 2023 — Russia launched fresh waves of drones and missile strikes on Ukraine. Explosions were heard in Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv, overnight. The mayor confirmed that five people had been injured in what he described as the most significant kamikaze drone attack so far.

Ukrainian military confirmed that the latest attack by Russia was launched shortly after midnight and lasted for over four hours. Iranian-made Shahed kamikaze drones were seen all across the country. The Mayor of Kyiv, Vitaliy Klitschko, said close to 60 drones were launched by Russia, which makes it the most significant attack of such.

The military administration of Kyiv said emergency services responded after wreckages of drones fell on a runway at Khuliany international airport, which is one of the city’s two commercial airports. The President of Ukraine announced that May 9 would be celebrated as Europe Day.

Source: BBC 
With the federal government incentivizing the expansion of domestic electric-vehicle battery manufacturing, a new Cornell study examines the long-term energy and sustainability prospects of U.S. production, and highlights policy approaches for building a more resilient battery supply chain.

EV batteries are mostly manufactured overseas, and many policy makers want to move more production to the U.S. – a practice known as reshoring – to reduce dependence on foreign imports and unpredictable global supply chains. But reshoring will also have an effect on the country’s renewable energy transition and climate goals.

A study published on June 14 in Science Advances provides one of the most comprehensive energy and environmental analyses of reshoring lithium-ion EV batteries, considering the whole life cycle, including raw material acquisition, component production, manufacturing, distribution and transportation.

The study found that reshoring could reduce the overall carbon footprint of U.S. EV batteries and the energy needed to produce them, but the benefits can swing dramatically based on factors such as advances in technology, supply chain restructuring, and electric vehicle adoption.

“For example, utilizing recycled aluminum and nickel can reduce the carbon footprint by up to 26% for the pre-pandemic U.S. electric vehicle fleet,” said the study’s co-lead author, Fengqi You, the Roxanne E. and Michael Zak Professor of Energy Systems Engineering and a senior faculty fellow at the Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability. “This study highlights the importance of data science and sustainability analytics in informing future policy on energy, climate, manufacturing and the environment.”

The study also examined energy and sustainability prospects of an ally-shoring strategy, in which production capacities for refined metals and battery components are reallocated to Japan, South Korean and European Union countries.

Findings from the study include:

Increasing the shares of onshoring and ally production in the future U.S. EV battery supply chain could reduce the carbon footprint by up to 27% compared to the current supply chain configuration.
Increasing the shares of renewable energy in the power grid and reducing the reliance on hard coal and lignite-fired electricity would enhance the environmental sustainability of EV batteries.
A strategic integration of battery technology advancement and supply chain restructuring can result in a 54% improvement in climate change mitigation benefits.
While reshoring could reduce ecotoxicity and fine particulate matter formation by over 30% from secondary nickel supply, there is a decrease in environmental performances in ozone formation, ozone depletion and ionizing radiation due to increasing overseas transportation distance for materials.
“The type of advanced modeling and systems analysis offered by this study is essential for considering the environmental tradeoffs in how lithium-ion batteries are built,” said study co-author Apoorv Lal, a graduate student in You’s Process-Energy-Environmental Systems Engineering Lab, “and for securing a resilient midstream and downstream value chain for the U.S. amidst uncertain markets and evolving battery technologies.”