Monday, August 21, 2023 – Reports confirmed that a Ukrainian drone strike had destroyed a Russian long-range bomber. The images posted on social media show a Tupolev Tu-22 on fire at Soltsy-2 airbase, south of St. Petersburg. Russia has often used the Tu-22 — a supersonic war jet — to attack Ukrainian cities.

The Ministry of Defense of Russia confirmed that “an attack by a copter-type UAV took place around 10:00 Moscow time.” The ministry added, “The UAV was detected by the airfield’s observation outpost and was hit with small-arms fire.”

However, the destruction of just one aircraft in the Russian military has little effect on the potency of Moscow’s current 60-strong fleet. The operation, however, highlights that Kyiv’s ability to strike targets deep inside Russian territory is growing.

Source: BBC 
Wednesday, September 6, 2023 – At least 17 people died due to a blast that happened on a busy market street in the middle of the day. The President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky has condemned the attack, saying it was a deliberate attack on the peaceful city of Kostyantynivka.

The President, who has blamed Moscow for the attack said that the people that were killed in the blast did nothing wrong and warned that the death toll is likely to increase. Not less than 33 people are said to have been injured. Part of the establishments that were hit were a market, pharmacy, and shops.

The recent attack is one of the worst attacks on Ukrainian civilians since the spring. The Prosecutor-general of Ukraine has launched an investigation into the incident. His office confirmed that they are in pursuit of “criminal proceedings for violation of the laws and customs of war.” 

Source: BBC 
Saturday, September 23, 2023 – The President of the United States, Joe Biden plans to give Ukraine advanced long-range missiles to assist Kyiv with its ongoing counter-offensive. It was confirmed that Ukraine would be getting some ATACMS missiles with a range of up to 190 miles (300km). With the missiles, Ukraine would be able to hit Russian targets deep behind the front line.

On Friday, two of Ukraine’s missiles struck Russia’s Black Sea fleet headquarters. A military source from Ukraine confirmed that the attack used Storm Shadow missiles, which were supplied to Ukraine by Britain and France.

After meeting with President Biden at the White House, Ukraine will receive a new tranche of $325m in military aid, which includes artillery and ammunition. Ukraine has long been requesting ATACMS in order to boost its tough and bloody counter-offensive in the south.

Source: BBC 


The US Department of Energy (DOE) issued a notice of intent to release a funding opportunity that would provide up to $37 million from Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL) funding to advance electric vehicle (EV) battery recycling, transportation, and design (DE-FOA-0003120).

As of July 2023, more than 3.9 million plug-in electric vehicles have been sold in the US. With the demand for EVs and stationary energy storage projected to increase the lithium battery market by as much as ten-fold by 2030, it is essential to invest in sustainable, reduced-cost recycling of lithium batteries in support of a secure, resilient, and circular domestic supply chain for critical materials.

The BIL will invest more than $7 billion in the batteries supply chain over the next five years; this includes sustainable sourcing and processing of the critical minerals used in battery production without new extraction or mining all the way through end-of-life battery collection and recycling.

The anticipated FOA and any related activities support BIL section 40208, Electric Drive Vehicle Battery Recycling and Second-Life Applications Program aimed at “research, development, and demonstration of:

second-life applications for electric drive vehicle batteries that have been used to power electric drive vehicles; and

technologies and processes for final recycling and disposal of the [electric drive vehicle batteries].

The high-capacity battery supply chain consists of five main steps:

raw material production,

materials processing,

battery material manufacturing and cell fabrication,

battery pack and end use product manufacturing, and

battery end-of-life and recycling.

The graphic below shows how these five steps relate to the BIL investments in the battery supply chain.

Bil

The anticipated FOA will focus on solutions that reduce the costs associated with battery recycling through technologies, processes, and product designs that facilitate the transport, disassembly, and preprocessing of end-of-life electric drive vehicle batteries.

Because the cost of transportation increases with distance traveled, technologies and processes that can interface at the point of collection, such as those performed at or with auto recyclers, dealerships, or automobile mechanic shops, are especially appealing. Also of interest are technologies or product designs that lower the costs and improve safety associated with the transport and disassembly of electric drive vehicle batteries including but not limited to:

technologies and processes, that improve the safety of end-of-life electric drive vehicle battery transportation by de-energizing, neutralizing, safely shredding, or otherwise deactivating the battery;

product designs that decrease the cost and improve the safety of end-of-life electric drive vehicle battery packaging; and

product designs that facilitate the dismantling and separation of end-of-life electric drive vehicle batteries and battery material.

The anticipated FOA will also address recycling of the electric drive vehicle battery accessory components. In pursuit of demonstrating the recycling of all battery components, the anticipated FOA will support technologies and processes for final recycling and disposal of battery accessory components, including casings and enclosures made from plastics and polymer composites.

It is anticipated that the FOA would provide approximately $35 million to fund research, development, and demonstration of transportation, dismantling, and preprocessing of end-oflife electric drive vehicle batteries for recycling at reduced cost, as well as $2 million for recycling of plastic and polymer electric drive vehicle battery accessory components.

EERE envisions awarding multiple financial assistance awards in the form of grants. The estimated period of performance for each award will be approximately 3-4 years.