Saturday, May 13, 2023 – The United States and the European Union will pledge joint action to look into concerns about China concerning non-market practices and coordinate their export controls on semiconductors and other goods at a meeting later this month.

Secretary of State of the United States, Antony Blinken, Vice-President of the European Commission, Margarethe Vestager, and other senior officials are expected to meet in Lulea, Sweden, on May 30-31. The meeting will be the fourth edition of the EU-U.S. Trade and Technology Council (TTC).

They also plan to coordinate their controls on sensitive items, including goods with military use and semiconductors. Also, part of their aim is to cooperate to counter foreign manipulation of information, including “China’s amplification of Russian disinformation narratives about the war in Ukraine.”

Source: Reuters 
Sunday, June 4, 2023 – An alleged Russian strike in a residential area of Ukraine city, Dnipro, has killed a little girl who is two years old and also left 22 people injured. The governor of the region said the girl's body was pulled out from the rubble of a house in the Pidhorodneska community. Five out of the injured people were children, with three boys in critical condition in the hospital, Serhiy Lysak confirmed. 

The President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, has blamed Russia for the attack. However, no comment has been made about Kremlin concerning the attack. The President described the attack in Dnipro as a deliberate attack, even though Russia had previously denied targeting residential area

Also, explosions were heard in Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv, where the air defense system was again used.

Source: BBC
Wednesday, May 31, 2023 – Scientists from the Earth Commission provide troubling evidence that our world is facing rising problems in water supply, fertilizer loading, ecosystem management, and aerosol pollution. These endanger the stability of life-support systems and exacerbate socioeconomic inequality.

According to scientists, we have reached a saturation point where we have surpassed the limit of the Earth system's biophysical capacity to remain stable. “We are approaching tipping points, with more severe damage to global life-support systems.”

The study establishes a set of "safe and just" environmental criteria that may be compared to the vital signs of the human body. It examines indicators such as water flow, phosphorus usage, and land conversion rather than pulse, temperature, and blood pressure. The boundaries are based on a review of prior research conducted by universities and UN science organizations.

Source: The Guardian 
Ford Motor Company announced long-term contracts with multiple lithium suppliers last week as the automaker moves to secure the raw materials needed to scale its electric vehicle production.

As Ford aims to produce 600,000 EVs this year and more than 2 million units by 2026, the automaker has spent the last year securing ongoing access to the critical minerals needed for its EV vehicles and batteries.

The company is working to develop a more sustainable North American battery supply chain, which will help “fortify and de-risk our plans for sourcing the key minerals we need to make EVs more accessible for our customers longer-term,” Lisa Drake, Ford’s vice president of EV Industrialization, Model e, said in an Albemarle release.

Ford’s recent lithium supplier agreements
The automaker’s latest lithium supply deals span three countries, with partnerships guaranteed through at least 2034.

In addition to the supplier partnership between Albemarle and Ford, the two companies will also explore options to develop a closed-loop solution for lithium-ion battery recycling.

The automaker has been working to broaden its supplier pool amid worries of limited raw material supply, securing mineral agreements in Asia, South America and North America. In April, Ford added to its trove of suppliers by investing in an Indonesia-based nickel facility. The site is set to open in 2026.

Ford’s growing list of suppliers will help the automaker fulfill its planned capacity additions, especially as the company expands its EV production sites across the U.S. In February, Ford announced a $3.5 billion investment for its first lithium iron phosphate EV battery plant in Michigan.


