Thursday, October 5, 2023 – According to the EU climate service, September saw the highest global temperatures ever measuring 1.75C, far surpassing the previous record. The temperature this month was 0.5C hotter than the previous record set in 2020 and 0.93C warmer than the average September temperature between 1991 and 2020.

Experts believe that the heat is being caused by both the El Niño weather event and the ongoing emissions of warming gases. A few scientists expressed their surprise at the magnitude of the rise; and that the magnitude of the warming places new pressure on politicians to act as they prepare for the COP28 climate summit at the end of November.

The September result does not violate the 2015 Paris Accord to keep temperatures below 1.5 degrees Celsius since the Paris target relates to decades, not months. However, it is undeniably a concerning trend. Scientists anticipate that this year will remain below the 1.5C limit, but 2023 is "on track" to be the warmest on record.

Source: BBC 
Saturday, November 4, 2023 – The Palestinian Red Crescent has confirmed that an Israeli strike in an ambulance outside Gaza City’s biggest capital killed not less than 15 people. The attack was confirmed by Israel, saying that the ambulance was being used by Hamas operatives.

According to the statement from the Hamas government, it said the Israeli forces targeted “a convoy of ambulances which was transporting the wounded” from Al-Shifa Hospital Gaza City towards Rafah in the south. The Palestinian Red Crescent confirmed that the convoy was struck twice on its way to Al-Shifa Hospital. The first strike was 1km away and the second strike was outside the hospital gate.

The Ministry of Health in Egypt said that only 17 Palestinians who were wounded were evacuated for treatment in an Egyptian hospital, instead of the 28 that was originally planned. 

Source: BBC 
Tuesday, October 3, 2023 – India has directed Canada to withdraw close to 40 diplomatic staff from its country. India confirmed that those who stayed past 10 October would lose their diplomatic immunity. 

Canada accused India last month of its involvement in the killing of Sikh separatist leader, Hardeep Singh Nijjar on Canadian Soil, an allegation that was denied by India. My Trudeau told the parliament of Canada that an investigation is being carried out by the country’s intelligence agencies to determine whether the agents of the government of India were involved in the killing of the separatist leader.

The Prime Minister of Canada, Justin Trudeau said on Tuesday that he does not plan to escalate the rift with India. He also added that both countries would continue to engage responsibly and constructively with one another.

Source: BBC 
WASHINGTON, Nov 13 (Reuters) - Democratic Senator Joe Manchin urged the U.S. Treasury on Monday to adopt the "strictest possible standards" to prevent Chinese-produced minerals or Chinese battery companies from winning electric vehicle tax credits.
Manchin, who chairs the Senate Energy Committee, raised concerns in a letter to Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen about reports Chinese battery companies are actively pursuing business opportunities to take advantage of the credits, adding U.S. tax credits "cannot be allowed to be hijacked by adversaries engaging in mineral laundering."
In 2022, Congress passed the Inflation Reduction Act barring $7,500 in future consumer EV tax credits if any battery components are manufactured or assembled by a "foreign entity of concern."
The rules were aimed at weaning U.S. battery supply chains away from China, which Manchin noted is currently responsible for 74% of the world’s cathode production, 92% of anode production, and 76% of lithium-ion battery cell production.
The auto industry is awaiting detailed guidance from the Treasury on what is considered a "foreign entity of concern" as they make investment decisions on producing batteries for their transition to electric vehicles.
The foreign entity of concern rules come into effect in 2024 for completed batteries and 2025 for critical minerals used to produce them.
A Treasury spokesperson said as the clean energy market shifts "we will continue to assess and respond to any national security concerns associated with both international and domestic supply chains."
The Chinese embassy in Washington did not immediately comment.
Manchin said the law does not allow for a "value added test" exception and it "would be unconscionable to reward bad actors through a loose or deliberately weak interpretation."
A key decision in the guidance is whether Ford Motor (F.N), opens new tab deal to license the technology of Chinese battery manufacturer CATL (300750.SZ), opens new tab for use in Ford-owned U.S. battery plants will meet the Treasury's standards to access the tax credits. The arrangement has raised concerns among U.S. lawmakers.
Ford put its planned $3.5 billion Michigan battery plant on hold in September and said it was awaiting "final language" from the Treasury on whether batteries made using Chinese technology will qualify for tax credits.
Manchin said Yellen should "use the strictest metrics possible to ensure there are no loopholes that will lead to the laundering of minerals and materials from China or other nations of concern."
