Cobalt is considered a critical raw material. Global cobalt demand is expected to quadruple in the next four decades, due primarily to lithium-ion battery demand. Uniquely, this study provides detailed geographically explicit data on the cobalt supply chain, with the aim of both determining how susceptible primary cobalt production is to supply chain disruptions, and to evaluate possible supply risks. We conclude that the risks for supply chain disruptions are high. Firstly, the cobalt market is highly concentrated, with more than half of the cobalt mined in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and almost half of the cobalt refined in China. Secondly, almost all cobalt is mined as a by-product of copper and nickel. Finally, political stability in production countries is considered to be medium to very weak. There are also several factors in play that reduce supply risks. The concentration of the individual mines, refineries and companies remains under the threshold of a concentrated market, and the estimated 80 artisanal cobalt mines further diversify the mined supply. A network analysis shows the important position of companies with high betweenness and degree centrality. A disruption at these companies can affect the functioning of the overall supply chain. The geographic and a network visualization provide useful insights in the supply risks. Based on the analysis, we recommend to diversify cobalt production, through the development of mines, refineries, and efforts to ensure socially and environmentally sustainable artisanal mining.

Network analysis is used for understanding, designing, and managing supply chains (Bellamy and Basole, 2012). A network can be represented by a series of nodes and linkages in which the nodes represent an individual, a team, an organization, a community or a country and the linkages represent a relation between the nodes (Sandru in Rodriguez-Rodriguez and Leon, 2016). In the context of supply chain analysis, the use of network analysis is still relatively new. Today's resource criticality assessments do not generally account for risk aspects related to the topology of the supply chains (Nuss et al., 2016). The network analysis is used to analyze the structure and mutual dependence of the companies in the network. The network is visualised with the software tool Gephi (Gephi, 2019). The network metrics degree centrality, betweenness centrality and closeness centrality are used to analyze the position and influence of the companies in the network. The degree centrality indicates the number of linkages per node. The closeness centrality indicates how close a node is on average to all other nodes in the network, so how closely a company is connected to all other companies. It is calculated as the average of the shortest path length from the node to every other node in the network (Golbeck, 2015). Betweenness centrality captures the role of a company in connecting other companies in the network. It is measured with the number of shortest paths that pass through the target node.

The trade of cobalt between mines and refineries was mapped with trade data from UN Comtrade (UN Comtrade, 2019). The data as reported by import countries are often different from those reported by export countries. In this analysis we only use the import data, because it is generally accepted that import data is usually more reliable because imports usually generate tariff revenues while exports do not (Worldbank, 2010). In order to exclude transit flows only those 13 importing countries were selected in which cobalt was refined. Schmidt et al. (2016) show cobalt intermediate products, such as mattes, are a result of leaching and smelting processes that take place before cobalt refining. In the search for individual cobalt mines, we found that cobalt smelters or processing plants are often located at the mine site, see Figure S1 of the supporting information (SI). Therefore, to analyze the trade from countries with mines to countries with refineries we selected both the trade code for “cobalt ores and concentrates” as well as the code “cobalt: mattes and other intermediate products of cobalt metallurgy, cobalt and articles thereof” from the Comtrade data. These codes combine products with widely differing cobalt contents, therefore we have opted not to convert the volumes of the trade flows to their actual cobalt content, see also Table S1 of the SI.

In total there were 12 flows of cobalt ores and concentrates, with a total weight of 140 kt, and 84 flows of cobalt mattes and intermediate products, with a total weight of 190 kt (Comtrade 2016). Based on a refined production of 98,000 tonnes, the overall average cobalt content of all these trade flows together was around 30 %. The largest exporter of cobalt products is the Democratic Republic of the Congo, with 88 % of the exports. This is followed by Zambia (4 %), South Africa (2 %), New Caledonia (2 %), Finland (1 %) and Canada (1 %). All these countries also have cobalt mines. Some countries with high mined production have a relatively low export, e.g. China (0.09 %) and Australia (0.4 %), simply because the cobalt products are domestically refined. The largest importer of the cobalt products is China (97 %), followed by Japan (2 %). All other countries import less than 1 %. China and Japan also have relatively high refined production (46 % and 4 % of global production). A few inconsistencies in the data are described in the SI. A visualization of the geographic supply chain is presented in Fig. 1. The graph shows 40 cobalt mines, 23 refineries, and intermediate product trade flows between the countries (trade flows <50 tons are excluded).

Cobalt mines can be found on all continents, but there is a concentration of mines in the African copper belt, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Zambia. More than half of the mined cobalt production in 2016 originated from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (∼54 %), followed by China (∼8 %), Canada (∼5 %) and Australia (∼5 %). On the country level, the HHI index for the mined cobalt supply is 3082 for 2016, indicating a highly concentrated market, and therefore a high risk for supply. The concentration of the individual mines is much lower with a HHI of 974, as some countries have multiple mine sites, which makes the supply more diversified.

Cobalt refineries are also located on each continent, but there is a concentration of refineries in China. Of the refined supply ∼46 % originates from China, ∼13 % from Finland, ∼6 % from Canada and ∼6 % from Belgium, 5 %∼ from Zambia with the remaining 24 % of the refined supply coming from 12 other countries. The HHI index for the refined cobalt supply is: 2451, which is just under the threshold for a highly concentrated supply. The HHI of the individual refineries is much lower, 730, particularly the supply within China is more diversified since there are eight cobalt refineries in China. A disruption at a single mine or refinery would therefore only pose a small risk for global supply. But a disruption at the country level could seriously impact the global cobalt supply both for mined (the Democratic Republic of the Congo) and refined (China) production.

The estimated 80 artisanal mines help diversify the mined production (Fig. S2 in the SI). The share of artisanal cobalt production in the Democratic Republic of the Congo depends on developments in the industrial cobalt sector as well as the international market (BGR, 2017). Between 1998 and 2006 (a period of civil war and mismanaged state-controlled mines) nearly 90 % of the total Congolese cobalt production originated from the artisanal sector (BGR, 2017). This illustrates that artisanal mining can – at least partly – compensate for a shortage in industrial supply. This is in line with Mancheri et al. (2018), which find that artisanal tantalum supply makes the supply chain more flexible, as the production is spread over hundreds of sites and able to respond much more rapidly to price fluctuations than industrial mining, which require significant capitalization and years to significantly increase production.

Network analysis is used to find the most important actors related to the position of the actors in the network. This is also called the centrality, the position in the network (Lee and Sohn, 2015). Three types of centrality will be measured, the degree centrality, closeness centrality and the betweenness centrality. The analysis is of the linkages between the companies (mine and refinery operators and shareholders). Most shareholders only have one link (share) to one operator company. Only Glencore has shares in five mine operator companies and Vale, Chemaf, Gecamines, Lundin Mining in two mine operators. Overall, if a company with many linkages fails it may be more likely to result in a disruption of the global cobalt supply than when a company with only a few linkages fails (Nuss et al., 2016).

The companies with the smallest closeness centrality are the mine shareholders: Glencore, Huayou Cobalt and Gecamines, the mine operators: Mutanda ya Mukonkota Mining, Huayou Cobalt and Tenke Fungurume Mining, and the refineries: Gecamines, Minara Resources, Zhejiang Huayou Cobalt. Companies with smaller closeness centrality are connected to shorter supply chains (i.e. on average less ‘hops’ to get from one actor to another’ and it is therefore it may be less likely that a disruption in physical or information flows occurs (Nuss et al., 2016).

The companies with the highest betweenness centrality are the shareholders: Glencore, Huayou Cobalt and Vale, the mine operators: Mutanda ya Mukonkota Mining, Huayou Cobalt and Glencore, and the refineries: Zhejiang Huayou Cobal, Quzhou Huayou Cobalt New Material and Minara Resources. Companies with high betweenness centrality can function as bridges between other companies/countries and shorten the pathways between different companies. In this manner companies have (indirect) linkages to other companies through these ‘bridges’ that make the supply chain more resilient. Highlighting these nodes is important as the removal of these nodes can affect the functioning of the overall supply chain (Nuss et al., 2016). The network analysis also shows the multinational companies are vertically integrated, and own both cobalt mines and a refinery (e.g. Glencore, Vale, Norilsk Nickel, Chambishi Metals).

The overall centrality in the network can also be measured with a network analysis, but will need to be compared to other metal supply chains to indicate the level of risk. There are no other studies identified that made a network analysis of the companies in a specific metal supply chain.

We conclude that the risk of supply chain disruption is high. The supply of cobalt is strongly concentrated, both at the mining and refining stage. 98 % of cobalt is mined as a by-product of copper and nickel. Finally, there is a weighted weak governance performance in the mining countries and almost weak governance performance in the refining countries. The origin of supply for the global markets is also concentrated.

There are also some factors that reduce the supply risks. Though the mined and refined production is concentrated on the country level, the concentration of the individual mines, refineries and companies remains under the threshold of a concentrated market. In addition, the estimated 80 artisanal mines diversify the mined supply. While the mining of cobalt can have severe environmental impacts, the relatively low environmental performance of mining countries could indicate a lower supply risk as cobalt deposits with high environmental impacts may still be developed or expanded. The latter is an example of how resilience and sustainability do not necessarily go hand in hand.

This study identified specific companies in the cobalt supply chain that have a high degree centrality and betweenness centrality and low closeness centrality. A disruption at these companies creates a high risk to affect the functioning of the overall supply chain, as these companies function as ‘bridges’ between countries and companies. The large shareholder companies in the network are vertically integrated and own both mines and refineries. A supply chain could be more resilient if there are overall short supply chain paths (low closeness centrality), many companies ‘serving as bridges’ (high betweenness centrality) and an even distribution of degree centrality. The risks of the linkages are dependent on market dependent supplier buyer relations, when companies have multiple shareholders and multiple buyers and suppliers, this could decrease overall supply risks.

To increase supply chain resilience, we recommend to diversify the mined and refined cobalt production. More than 150 cobalt deposits are currently not mined, some of which some are in countries that currently do not have cobalt mines. Another option would be to explore deep sea mining, but there are significant concerns about environmental impacts and additional research into the ecological impact is needed. Finally, artisanal mining can play an important role in the diversity of supply. Efforts to ensure socially and environmentally sustainable artisanal mining could increase supply chain resilience. Ways to achieve this include the development and improvement of ASM sustainability certification schemes, and due diligence practices that promote responsible sourcing.

In this study we showed that by using multiple visualizations of a supply chain network can be used to gain useful insights in the resilience of the supply chain. This overview can be used as a tool by companies and policy makers to identify bottlenecks and constraints, as well as to identify the risks are for supply disruption.