he proper EOL EVB disposal according with circular economy, which is embodied in echelon utilization before recycling of raw materials and reverse logistics of products generated in the whole value chain, is a promising path toward sustainable management. In this way, not only the valued resources retained in scrap batteries can be fully used, but the lifespan of EVB be extended. Nevertheless, this emerging industry's progress is impeded by financial problems and imperfect regulation frameworks. Fundamentally, the driving force behind the supply chain of EOL EVB is economic benefits, so the establishment of the supply chain that benefits all participants is imperative (Hua et al., 2020). Hence, sustainable supply chain finance (SSCF) as an innovative practice of supply chain management (SCM), which highlights the win-win situation of economy, society and environment (Jia et al., 2020), can alleviate pressure of EOL EVB disposal industry toward sustainability.

However, the concept of SSCF is novel. Both theoretical and empirical research on SSCF is limited, and adoption of that in EVB supply chain is rarely researched. Social and environmental dimensions are often neglected in SCM, while immediate economic benefits are overmuch attended. As a result, there are many unsustainable supply chain practices, especially in environment-related industries such as EOL EVB disposal. Because of its infancy and ambiguous prospective rewards, only few large companies participate in this program, and most of them are pilot projects (Reinhardt et al., 2019).

In order to integrate scattered research findings of SSCF and EOL EVB, and then apply them into policy making and managerial practice, plentiful information about innovative concepts and cases should be incorporated. Consequently, the review of systematic scientific literature functions to outline a picture of extant researches, and informs scholars and policy makers of future directions (Nita, 2019). Better understanding from an interdisciplinary perspective can be provided by the studies of review (Pătru-Stupariu and Nita, 2022), leading to ways to improve sustainable EOL EVB management and identifying the prospects for SSCF adoption in this new area. The supply chain of EVBs has been explored ever. By grouping the findings of 20 different research teams worldwide, Rajaeifar et al. (2022) present the challenges and recent developments in supply chains of EVBs considering sustainable issues on every different stages of batteries' life cycle. From the main perspective of technology, Hua et al. (2020) discuss the circular operation and challenges in the sustainable value chain of retired EVB. Focusing on the disposal process of transportation, Slattery et al. (2021) identify 60 studies to assess the economic and environmental performance of EOL EVB disposal.

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. The representation of the literature synthesis on EOL EVB disposal and the concept of supply chain finance toward sustainability are presented in Section 2. Section 3 describes the method employed. Section 4 demonstrates the results. The intercorrelation of EOL EVB disposal and SSCF is discussed in Section 5. Section 6 presents the key conclusions and suggestions.

Owing to the scarcity of electrode materials (e.g. cobalt, lithium and nickel), the high costs are becoming an obstacle to EV's introduction. Meanwhile, the expensive LIB packs hinder the establishment of large-scale energy storage system (ESS) (Casals et al., 2019). Therefore, for the more affordable price and larger-scale adoption of EV, more sustainable supply chain of EVB should be achieved via effective EOL EVB disposal management.

For the application of EOL EVB to non-automobile stationary ESS (e.g. home storage from PV panels) (Casals et al., 2019), the relationship between the emerging energy storage technologies and EV supply chain including EOL EVB disposal must be bound tightly (Reinhardt et al., 2019). Meanwhile, recycling is an important part in waste EVB management system, as proper handling of different types of batteries helps avoid heavy metal contamination as well as fire and explosion cases caused by impact or short circuit (Terazono et al., 2015), which alleviates environmental and economical problems.

The EVB recycling process could be delayed 10–20 years by proper EOL disposal (Reinhardt et al., 2019). The major attention of sustainability must be paid to EOL EVB disposal industry, which is often hindered by financial obstacles and lacks of regulation frameworks. Some countries such as Iran, which have no program regarding waste batteries' safe disposal, simply mix them with municipal solid waste and then discard or landfill them (Zand and Abduli, 2008). Only few companies (e.g. Umicore and Sony) have exploited technologies to recycle waste EVB on a large commercial scale (Reinhardt et al., 2019).
In conclusion, proper EOL EVB disposal alleviates environmental pressure, and maximizes the value of the batteries, leading to sustainable performance of the whole EV supply chain. However, due to the uncertainty of EOL EVB and the novelty of the disposal market, sustainable supply chain management in the industry must be emphasized.

Due to the crisis of 2008, firms, especially small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), suffer a serious credit crunch and liquidity shortage which immensely increases financing costs (Liu et al., 2021). Against this background, supply chain finance (SCF) (Table 1) is gradually attended in working capital management to create a new financing path.

With rapid consumption of the limited global resources, new development trend is discussed. Sustainable development is defined as “… development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs”, which is developed by the Brundtland Report in 1987 (WCED, 1987). Nowadays, the concept of sustainable development [1] could be identified as one of the novel and key source of competitive advantage, which appeals for companies' adjustment of business activities (Reinhardt et al., 2019) and brings both challenges and potential opportunities to current supply chain operation. As an innovative management measure reinforcing whole supply chain, SCF plays a critical role chasing for sustainable SCM.

With the increasing adoptions of SCF, it not only contributes to realize economic sustainability by addressing the cash flow problem, but involves in environmental and social issues along whole supply chain gradually (Dye and Yang, 2015; Tsao, 2015). The concept of sustainable supply chain finance (SSCF) is addressed by Tseng et al. (2018) when exploring Vietnam's textile industries, in which TBL and SCF are connected first.

Due to the dependence of traditional transportation sector on non-renewable energy, considerable attention on climate change and energy crisis has been paid to automotive industry, leading to vigorous and wide promotion of EV worldwide (Azadnia et al., 2021). Following the increasing number of EVs, a huge number of batteries should be supplied rapidly to support the expanding EV market, and a lot of retiring EVBs need to be recycled, simultaneously considering the limited raw materials of them. Several representative countries' projections of the development of EOL EVB disposal are presented in Table 4. In order to meet the new challenges of EOL EVB disposal, the conventional solutions to supply chain management (SCM) should be adjusted, and the innovative one is demanded.

There are numerous stakeholders such as manufacturers, retailers and consumers in EV supply chain covering EOL EVB disposal, which needs a more sustainable multi-stakeholder-centric network rather than firm-centric business model (Reinhardt et al., 2019). If the existing criteria of pre-evaluation of SCF still only focuses on economic interest but ignores enterprises' sustainable performance, significant risks will be faced by the whole supply chain, resulting in incalculable losses (Jia et al., 2020).

Moreover, the sustainable requirements of EOL EVB disposal challenges prevailing SCM in EV industry, which strongly depends on considerable chemical consumption and scarce natural resources (Mayyas et al., 2019). As a critical factor of industrial development, the financial flows along supply chain should be managed through successful SSCF, leading to a more sustainable SCM (Tseng et al., 2019). From the perspective of economic benefit, for suppliers, corporate profit and growth can be achieved by increasing liquidity via SSCF service (Tseng et al., 2018). For focal companies, corporate sustainability strategies can be more readily complied by their suppliers (Thomas et al., 2016), leading to an enhanced sustainable SC relationship and a positive public image (Beske-Janssen et al., 2015), which facilitates maintaining economic growth. Besides that, SSCF financial evaluation can mitigate the default risk of adopters who will face government shutdown because of unsustainable practices, which may cause providers' massive losses.