Useful insights are to be derived by comparing model results between scenarios and integrating the model results with knowledge of realities of the Ni supply system. This division is somewhat unrealistic, as the supply and demand from the different systems will influence one another's development. The parameters of the different systems are largely controlled by stakeholders who are mainly associated to a certain subsystem. For example, vehicle manufacturers and users have most control over the battery chemistries and gross EV production/penetration but less control over elements of the Ni Supply system. Mining companies on the other hand may have control over facilities spanning several processes of the Ni Supply subsystem, but have less influence over the LiB Demand subsystem. A similar dynamic exists with policy measures which for the most part target one subsystem. Of course, agreements are made between stakeholders in various subsystems (for example through exclusive offtake agreements), and policy measures in one part of the system may be targeted to another (for example the proposed EU directive limiting embodied carbon in batteries sold in Europe may be targeted to control emissions farther up the supply chain). This is the reason for a systemic analysis. This separation is taken to be useful in understanding the system dynamics and how a desired development in one subsystem can cause a bottleneck in the other.

The non-battery demand subsystem, like the LiB subsystem, is modelled from the inflow to the system using an inflow-lifetime-driven cohort-based model. This subsystem models all demand for Ni products which are not specifically LiBs. This subsystem plays an important role toward Ni shortfalls and impacts relating to LiB demand for nickel, both in providing market competition to the LiB sector for Ni resources, and in being the historical driver of the Ni supply chain.

Notably, Stainless steel feedstocks can be flexible using either class 1 or class 2, but in order to adjust the purity levels, some amount of class 1 is necessary, this is sometimes called the class 1 loading rate. For historic reasons, the nickel supply system has shifted toward higher production of class 2 feedstocks over time, incentivising the stainless steel industry to lower the amount of class 1 nickel required in their production processes. Because the class 1 Ni can now be used in LiB production, the loading rate of class 1 to stainless steel production is particularly relevant to the issue of availability of Nickel to the LiB sector.

This need for feedstock differentiation is maintained in the model structure by dividing the inflow to process 16 into a total demand parameter, which indicates the total flow value incoming to the combined process 16, and minimum demand parameters of class 1 and of sulphate, which describe the minimum flows to process 16a and 16b from processes m11 and 12. These minimum flows are important in the way that they drive the upstream system, but they do not play a role in the downstream calculation of in-use-stock and end of life flows. In the model run there are four parameter set storylines for the NoB Demand Subsystem. These are taken from two different publicly available projections for Ni demand into the future produced by minerals consulting firms Roskill and Wood Macenzie (Fraser et al., 2021; Thompson et al., 2020). 

Baseline values are assigned in situations where a certain supply chain is established and will likely persist despite changes in the macro supply environment. For example, certain metal refineries (process 10) are technologically adapted to a particular feedstock from a specific source, and adapting the refinery to accommodate a different feedstock would be technologically difficult and expensive. For this reason, many refineries are vertically integrated with their feedstock facilities and have a supply relationship which is significantly (though not entirely) unresponsive to market forces. In an attempt to include such relationships into the model, vertically integrated facilities have attempted to be identified and the flow between integrated facilities is set at a baseline of the capacities of the facilities. An overview of the order of priorities and the baseline flows used in relevant model processes is shown below in Table 1 - Overview of the merit order of incoming flows to processes in the Ni supply subsystem. Processes which have multiple inflows are shown. Baseline inflows are always satisfied by the model and represent inflexible supply chains. Remaining inflows are calculated according to inflow priority. 

Vertical integration of facilities along the supply chain from mining to production is an important element of the supply system that has been observed increasingly in the automotive sector, which aims at securing their supply of batteries and associated materials alike.