Mined raw materials are the anchor of all manufacturing value chains. In the case of automobiles, EVs typically require three to four times more copper than conventional cars and is causing a surge in demand for minerals such as lithium, nickel, cobalt, manganese, graphite (essential for batteries), and rare earth elements (crucial for electric motors). Rapidly expanding demand, coupled with global supply chain constraints, have fuelled a significant run up in prices for a number of these key materials.

The potential future imbalance between supply and demand is a concern. Some critical materials are used in multiple emerging technologies, and as these technologies are being rapidly adopted, the demand for these materials is growing exponentially. For example, the global demand for lithium is expected to increase by up to 89 times current demand by 2050. However, meeting this demand involves long lead times, averaging around 16.5 years according to the IEA. Hence, supply shortages and price volatility in the short and medium terms are likely. In addition, extracting minerals from lower-grade ores means higher economic and environmental costs.

The governments of resource-importing countries are also concerned with the high concentration of critical raw material production in certain countries or regions. Figure 3 shows that many EV related commodities are among the most production-concentrated, with China, Russia, Australia, and African countries having significant shares.

In response, buyers, producers, and traders are increasingly prioritising responsible sourcing. For example, since 2018 the London Metal Exchange made it mandatory for all traded cobalt to undergo audit assessments for compliance with OECD due diligence guidance . Major buyers such as Apple, VW, and Tesla have also reformed their purchasing rules and Huayou Cobalt, China’s largest cobalt producer, stopped buying from artisanal producers in 2020.

Addressing these challenges requires robust governance frameworks, enhanced transparency and sustainable practices to promote ESG standards and to decarbonise commodity supply chains. The DRC has focused on organising artisanal cobalt miners into larger-scale operations and introduced traceability mechanisms. The Chilean government has also implemented production quotas for major lithium miners and insisted that producers compensate local communities for damages caused by competition for water.

The EV revolution has reached mainstream acceptance among consumers and governments around the world but brings with it significant challenges and opportunities for both developed and developing countries. To understand who stands to benefit and lose from the EV revolution requires a careful understanding of how global value chains are organised and managed. As mining, processing, and manufacturing tend to take place in different geographical locations with different regulatory environments, the challenge is how to navigate such a rapidly changing geopolitical landscape. To understand the implications of such rapid changes requires timely and careful interdisciplinary research spanning economics, geography, procurement, development, sociology, engineering and chemistry.