This emphasis on carbon emissions and their measurement has left aside aspects such as the ecological footprint and environmental justice issues; instead, it has promoted a green recovery (Valdivieso, 2012) that hides the increase in consumption and investments in megaprojects with low ecological credibility and that is presented as low carbon emitters.

Examples are wind megaprojects, desalination mega-plants, forestry monocultures, and cobalt, copper, and lithium mining for technologies based on renewable energy.

Currently, lithium is in high demand in the international markets as a strategic resource for the green electromobility industry, which represents part of the Global North policies established by the Paris Agreement to mitigate climate change’s effects.

The results demonstrate how the linkages and feedback between global and local dynamics of lithium mining in the Salar de Atacama constitute a form of green extractivism that further replicates the historical inequalities between the Northern and Southern hemispheres and especially affects the indigenous Andean territories and the water ecosystems in the Global South.

Lithium exploitation has been contributing to producing socio-environmental pressures through water overexploitation in hydro-social territories (cf. Boelens et al., 2018), which, in turn, has been generating growing ethno-cultural fractures in the local communities.

We propose a decolonial interpretation of lithium mining extractivism in brine mining through the lens of Latin American political ecology combined with a decolonial and water justice approach.

Our argument is that the expansion of lithium demand coming from the Global North has been generating socio-environmental damages and water injustices in the Global South due to the transformation of local hydro-social processes. With this, it has affected both the ecosystems and communities of native people.

This paper analyzes the linkages and feedback between green electromobility, lithium extractivism, and water injustices affecting the Atacameño’s indigenous communities in the Salar de Atacama basin (Atacama Salt Flats).

We conclude by exposing the need to rethink global proposals addressing climate change by reducing the commodity demand and aiming for water justice at global and local levels.

We conclude that there is a need to rethink global proposals for climate change beyond the scope proposed by green electromobility, which limits itself to counting carbon emissions but within the green capitalist rationality.

Currently, only lithium companies extract more than two million liters of water (fresh and saline) daily from the Salar de Atacama, considering that SQM is authorized to extract between 1500 and 1700 L per second (l/s), and Albemarle 442 l/s of brine.

On the other hand, Australia leads the world production of lithium, with an annual production of 42,000 tons in 2019. It is followed by Chile with 18,000 tons (brines), then China with 7500 tons (rock and brines) and Argentina (brines) with 6400 tons (USGS, 2020). 

However, in gross terms, the largest amount of lithium reserves are located in the Andean salt flats of the countries of the Southern Cone (Argentina, Bolivia, Chile), with 54% of total resources and 66% of total reserves
(COCHILCO, 2017)

Lithium mining in Chile is concentrated in the Salar de Atacama and has its origins in 1962 when this mineral was discovered in the salt flat. Then, between 1966 and 1977, the State-owned Production Development Corporation (CORFO) constituted rights to 59,820 lithium mining properties (C ́amara de Diputados, 2016).

4.1.3. Commodification of the Andean salt flats: the “lithium triangle"
We are clearly talking about a mineral that will allow production at all
levels of world industry through batteries based on lithium.5
In the implementation of extractivisms that commodify nature, business and government discourses are produced to generate acceptance and legitimation around new commodities. 

Thus, new modern colonial extractivist territorialities are established (Jerez & Mara ̃n ́on, 2017), generating new waves of commodification and subordination of nature and local cultures via global extractivist colonialisms. In lithium’s case, new extraction territories were incorporated, such as the so-called “lithium triangle” (Gobel, 2013), an Andean area of the Southern Cone that has the largest lithium reserves in brines (see Fig. 1).

The extraction of brine containing water by lithium mining configures an extractivist territoriality that overlooks other local territorialities, knowledge, and Andean cosmovisions of nature. For the area’s indigenous communities, the Salar is a natural hydric entity that feeds the place’s non-human and human life.

However, brines—which make up most of the salt and from whose waters in different degrees of salinity lithium and potassium areextracted—are legally recognized as “mining property” or as a “mineral,” generating institutional denial of its constitution as a unique water ecosystem, as the Inspection chief of the DGA of Antofagasta outlined above.

4.2.1. Green economy as a new boom of lithium extractivism
As mentioned above, lithium demand for the manufacture of rechargeable batteries doubled in less than ten years (USGS, 2012, 2016, 2020), a process directly related to carbon mitigation policies (c.f. Gobel, 2013; Fornillo, 2019; Observatorio Plurinacional de Salares Andinos, 2021). This boom’s dark side is new pressure to expand lithium extractivism in the high Andean salt flats in Bolivia, Argentina, and
Chile. 

In fact, the new colonial inequality of this boom is already projected, as “a low-carbon future points to a more intensive demand for minerals, which would definitely have an effect on developing countries, rich in these resources” (La Porta, 2019, p. 28). In turn, this boom has triggered new eco-colonial rhetoric such as “Green Mining,” “Climate Smart Mining,” even “Mining for a low carbon future” (CEPAL, 2019).

The boom in green electromobility in the Global North and the pressures
it exerts on the Global South’s local ecologies operate through two
specific processes on a local scale

